PhotoChina’s regulations on foreign technology companies are attracting criticism from the highest levels of the United States government — including, now, from President Obama.The rules, among other things, require companies that sell computer equipment to Chinese banks to turn over secret source code, submit to invasive audits and build so-called back doors into hardware and software. Last month, Michael Froman, the United States trade representative, said the regulations under President Xi Jinping of China “aren’t about security — they are about protectionism and favoring Chinese companies.”In an interview with Mr. Obama on Monday, Reuters asked directly about the new regulations. Mr. Obama’s response:I am concerned. This is something that I’ve raised directly with President Xi, and my entire foreign policy team as well as people like Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker have raised with them. They’ve got a couple of laws that are working their way through the system that would essentially force all foreign companies, including U.S. companies, to turn over to the Chinese government mechanisms where they could snoop and keep track of all the users of those services. And as you might imagine, tech companies are not going to be willing to do that. Those kinds of restrictive practices, I think, would, ironically, hurt the Chinese economy over the long term, because I don’t think there’s any U.S. or European firm, any international firm, that could credibly get away with that wholesale turning over of data, personal data, over to a government. And so we’ve made very clear to them that this is something they’re going to have to change if they expect to do business with the United States.For now, the regulations apply only to banking technology, but that could change; an antiterrorism law under consideration could force all technology companies to give the Chinese government access to their data.China, for its part, says the United States has similar rules and restrictions. In 2010, Gary F. Locke, then secretary of commerce, told Sprint Nextel not to buy equipment from Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications equipment maker, because of security concerns.