As well the best, the multiple catastrophes in Japan have also brought out the very worst in people.On Tuesday, The Associated Press reported that one or more people have apparently posted fake death notices on Internet boards set up to reunite love ones separated by the crisis:For several hours, Ashley Russell thought his daughter was dead. A missing persons website set up to track Japan’s tsunami said so. The Australian father eventually discovered that the post was a hoax and his daughter, Alice Byron, is safe. Sydney-based Russell told of his distress Tuesday after finding a message on the Google site Saturday afternoon saying the 21-year-old woman had been confirmed dead at a hospital in the devastated coastal town of Ofunato, where she had been teaching English for nine months. It cited the name and telephone number of a real hospital, but gave a fake doctor’s name. Her father said frantic friends in Japan were able to telephone the hospital and confirm the deception. “There are some evil people out there,” said Russell, a 48-year-old publisher. “Her employer told me other people had suffered the same hoax as well.”The A.P. also reported on Monday that the insurance company Aflac fired Gilbert Gottfried, the voice of the insurer’s duck mascot, after the comedian “posted a string of mocking jokes about the earthquake and tsunami in Japan on Twitter over the weekend.” The news agency added:The tasteless tweets are particularly problematic for Aflac because it does 75 percent of its business in Japan. One in four homes in Japan buys health insurance from Aflac. The insurer’s CEO, Daniel Amos, flew to Japan on Sunday to show support for the company’s employees and agents.The comedian apologized on Tuesday, Reuters reports, releasing a statement which said: “I sincerely apologize to anyone who was offended by my attempt at humor regarding the tragedy in Japan. I meant no disrespect, and my thoughts are with the victims and their families.”According to Reuters, one of Mr. Gottfried’s jokes, now deleted from Twitter was: “I just split up with my girlfriend, but like the Japanese say, ‘They’ll be another one floating by any minute now.’”On Tuesday, BBC News reported:A fake text message warning people that radiation from the Fukushima nuclear plant has leaked beyond Japan has been panicking people across Asia. The SMS message, purporting to come from the BBC, has been circulating around Asian countries since Monday. It warns people to take necessary precautions against possible effects of radiation. The BBC has issued no such flash but the hoax has caused particular panic in the Philippines.According to BBC News the fake message said, in part: “Radiation may hit Philippine at around 4 pm today. If it rains today or in the next few days in Hong Kong. Do not go under the rain. If you get caught out, use an umbrella or raincoat, even if it is only a drizzle. Radioactive particles, which may cause burns, alopecia or even cancer, may be in the rain.”On Monday, one of the founders of FairWinds Partners, a domain name strategy consulting firm in Washington, pointed out in a blog post that several Web addresses with names related to giving to Japan were “snapped up in the wake of the crisis,” on Friday.Some of these people even appear to have then set up “fake Web sites with links to third-party payment sites, in order to trick the good Samaritans of the world into thinking that they are making donations to tsunami relief efforts, when, in reality, the money is going straight into scammers’ pockets.”FairWinds is particularly skeptical about the new site at the Web address Donatetojapan.org, which offers visitors just a single YouTube video about the catastrophe, a link to a Facebook page that appears not to exist, and the opportunity to contribute, via PayPal, to the shadowy organization’s goal of raising $1 million for Japan. (The site’s administrator did not respond to an email request for comment on the allegation that it is a hoax. So far the site claims to have raised just $10.)