As my colleagues Miguel Helft and David Barboza report, in a post on Google’s official blog on Monday, David Drummond, the company’s senior vice president and chief legal officer, announced, “today we stopped censoring our search services—Google Search, Google News, and Google Images—on Google.cn.”Here is Mr. Drummond’s post, in which he explains what prompted the search giant to stop censoring its results at the behest of the Chinese government and gives details of the new approach:On January 12, we announced on this blog that Google and more than twenty other U.S. companies had been the victims of a sophisticated cyber attack originating from China, and that during our investigation into these attacks we had uncovered evidence to suggest that the Gmail accounts of dozens of human rights activists connected with China were being routinely accessed by third parties, most likely via phishing scams or malware placed on their computers. We also made clear that these attacks and the surveillance they uncovered—combined with attempts over the last year to further limit free speech on the web in China including the persistent blocking of websites such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Google Docs and Blogger—had led us to conclude that we could no longer continue censoring our results on Google.cn. So earlier today we stopped censoring our search services—Google Search, Google News, and Google Images—on Google.cn. Users visiting Google.cn are now being redirected to Google.com.hk, where we are offering uncensored search in simplified Chinese, specifically designed for users in mainland China and delivered via our servers in Hong Kong. Users in Hong Kong will continue to receive their existing uncensored, traditional Chinese service, also from Google.com.hk. Due to the increased load on our Hong Kong servers and the complicated nature of these changes, users may see some slowdown in service or find some products temporarily inaccessible as we switch everything over. Figuring out how to make good on our promise to stop censoring search on Google.cn has been hard. We want as many people in the world as possible to have access to our services, including users in mainland China, yet the Chinese government has been crystal clear throughout our discussions that self-censorship is a non-negotiable legal requirement. We believe this new approach of providing uncensored search in simplified Chinese from Google.com.hk is a sensible solution to the challenges we’ve faced—it’s entirely legal and will meaningfully increase access to information for people in China. We very much hope that the Chinese government respects our decision, though we are well aware that it could at any time block access to our services. We will therefore be carefully monitoring access issues, and have created this new web page, which we will update regularly each day, so that everyone can see which Google services are available in China. In terms of Google’s wider business operations, we intend to continue R&D work in China and also to maintain a sales presence there, though the size of the sales team will obviously be partially dependent on the ability of mainland Chinese users to access Google.com.hk. Finally, we would like to make clear that all these decisions have been driven and implemented by our executives in the United States, and that none of our employees in China can, or should, be held responsible for them. Despite all the uncertainty and difficulties they have faced since we made our announcement in January, they have continued to focus on serving our Chinese users and customers. We are immensely proud of them.As Reuters reported on Monday, before the anticipated announcement was made, “China’s state-run Xinhua news agency launched a new broadside against Google Inc. on Monday, saying in an angry commentary that the company had reneged on promises to abide by Chinese law.”Indeed, the Chinese news agency’s English-language Web site includes links to a series of articles on Google, clearly intended to preempt the announcement that it would stop cooperating in censorship in China. Among the headlines on Xinhua on Monday: “Google, don’t politicalize yourself,” “Indifference, uncertainty cloud Google’s China threat,” “Google urged by Chinese writers to keep its promise,” “Can China live without Google?”The news agency’s suggestion that “indifference” might meet Google’s decision to end its cooperation with government censorship of search results was based on what it said were the results of an online poll on the Web site of a newspaper affiliated with the People’s Daily. In that poll, readers were asked “What’s your opinion of Google’s pulling out of China?” According to Xinua “Up to 84 percent of more than 27,000 respondents answered the ‘Don’t care’ option.”As always, we welcome comments from readers on this issue. However, we ask that readers who are writing from China make that clear since subjects like this do seem to generate responses from people not interested in open debate.