As our colleagues Choe Sang-hun and David Sanger report, Kim Jong-il, the mysterious and mercurial dictator of North Korea, has died. The news rippled across the globe Sunday night after the country’s official news media proclaimed the leader dead by way of a black-clad television announcer who appeared to be holding back tears.Later in the day, state television broadcast more footage of North Koreans crying in the streets of Pyongyang, the capital.Similar scenes followed the announcement of the death in 1994 of Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Il-sung, the country’s founder, who remains its “president for eternity.” Looking at archival video of that announcement posted on YouTube, it appears that the same woman read the news in both cases, a veteran news anchor named Ri Chun-hui, whose recent absence from state television was a subject of speculation just last week.The news of Mr. Kim’s death was also posted on the Web by North Korea’s state news agency, KCNA, as Martyn Williams, a technology journalist, explained on his blog, North Korea Tech. The announcement can be read on the English-language section of KCNA’s official Web site, which also features a “Medical Analysis of Kim Jong-il’s Demise,” and reports on the leader’s last official acts, giving “field guidance” to a state-run DVD-maker and a supermarket.As our colleague Martin Fackler reports, Mr. Kim’s son, Kim Jong-un, is next in line for the leadership of North Korea. This video report from South Korea’s English-language Arirang TV features recent footage of Kim Jong-un from North Korean state television.Soon after the announcement, The Associated Press reported that stocks in Asia slid on fears that Mr. Kim’s death would increase instability in the region. And in South Korea, the Yonhap News Agency said that the country’s military was on “emergency alert.”(LEAD) S. Korean military declares emergency alert after Kim Jong-il’s death bit.ly/sEJdlE — Yonhap News Agency (@YonhapNews) December 19, 2011North Korea is an extraordinarily secretive and closed society, and media access is quite limited. This recent Associated Press slide show gave a rare glimpse inside the country.Two New York Times reporters have also been able to visit the the northern end of the peninsula in recent years. In September, Edward Wong joined the maiden voyage of a tourist cruise — the vessel was a former cargo freighter that Mr. Wong said reminded him of military bases in Iraq. This video report documents his journey.In 2010, Sharon LaFraniere joined Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico on a trip to Pyongyang. Her cell phone was confiscated at the airport, but she was able to capture these images on a small video camera.