In addition to trying to understand what exactly is happening at the damaged nuclear plants in Japan, many people are trying to figure out how dangerous a meltdown at the plant could be in the worst-case scenario.This video report from Britain’s Channel 4 News includes a good overview of the crisis at at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, 150 miles north of Tokyo, and an interview with John Beddington, the British government’s chief scientific adviser, who insisted that even a full meltdown of the reactors would still not compare to the disaster at Chernobyl 25 years ago, partly because of the different reactor design:Mr. Beddington said that “in Chernobyl the whole top blew off the reactor, there was no covering, the graphite there burned for a long period of time, sending up a plume of radioactive material to several tens of thousands of meters. In the very worst case that we’re looking at in Japan, we’re seeing a very short-lived explosion and a plume of radioactive material going up to at maximum about 500 meters.”Tom Clarke, the Channel 4 News science correspondent, argues on the broadcaster’s Web site that there are several reasons to think that the worst-case in Japan will not be as bad as Chernobyl, including these two factors:1. The three stricken reactors at the Fukushima plant were shut down automatically when the quake was detected. The blast at the Chernobyl plant occurred while the reactor was operating at full temperature meaning there was far more energy in the explosion. Far more radioactive material was blasted far further. 2. The explosions at the No. 1 and No. 3 reactors were due to a mixture of hydrogen gas and air outside the reactor vessel which is made of a 20cm-thick steel casing. At Chernobyl a chemical reaction in the reactor itself caused it to explode. At Chernobyl some of the nuclear fuel and radioactive reactor components were vaporised and blasted into the environment.On Saturday, the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that Japan has classified the accident at the Fukushima plant, “as a level 4 ‘Accident with Local Consequences,’ on the International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale.” As the I.A.E.A. explained: “The scale runs from 0 (deviation) to 7 (major accident).”As John Large, a nuclear engineer, explained to Channel 4 News:To give you an example, one is someone dropping a milk bottle in the control room, and Chernobyl [a nuclear accident in the Ukraine in 1986, which killed between 31 and tens of thousands of people over the long-term] is seven. Three Mile Island, a nuclear incident in 1979, was rated 5, he said. This incident seems more similar to what is happening in Japan – there was a meltdown in the core and some radiation released, but no major leak.I.A.E.A.A Japanese nuclear expert who spoke to foreign journalists on Monday offered a somewhat less optimistic perspective, pointing out that the kind of fuel used in one of the reactors where there has been an explosion already could add to the danger. As as CNET bloger named Tim Hornyak reported on Monday: