In many ways, the battle between Lance Armstrong, the former cyclist who overcame cancer to win the Tour de France seven straight times, and the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which formally charged him last month with using performance-enhancing drugs, is far from even.Mr. Armstrong, who has retired from cycling, is suing in federal court to prevent the antidoping agency from scheduling a hearing at which it would present the testimony of 10 witnesses who say the rider, like many of his peers in the sport, used systematic doping to compete. In court documents, he has presented himself as the innocent victim of an out-of-control, government-financed agency. Mr. Armstrong’s lawyers say the antidoping agency used coercion to obtain witness statements from former teammates, including one of his closest friends, who all testified that he had participated in a conspiracy to win the world’s hardest cycling race by cheating.However, Mr. Armstrong’s life story, combined with his popularity, charisma and undeniable history of good works — like setting up a well-endowed foundation to press for a cure to cancer — give him a clear advantage over the antidoping officials in the realm of public relations. In recent days, Mr. Armstrong, who has been advised by Mark McKinnon, a strategist who previously worked for George W. Bush and Bono, has sought to deploy another powerful weapon, political clout.On Thursday, Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., a longtime Republican lawmaker from Wisconsin who survived prostate cancer, announced that he was investigating the antidoping agency’s use of “taxpayer funding” to pursue Mr. Armstrong. In a letter to the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, which provides about two-thirds of the antidoping agency’s budget, Mr. Sensenbrenner, defended Mr. Armstrong at some length, using arguments identical to those presented by his legal team. He also complained that “Usada seeks to strip Armstrong of his achievements and the substantial winnings that accompanied them without offering him even basic due process.”In a statement responding to the congressman’s letter, the chief executive of the antidoping agency, Travis Tygart, said that the case against Mr. Armstrong, and five of his associates, including medical personnel and his team manager, “was not brought lightly.” He added: “The evidence is overwhelming, and were we not to bring this case, we would be complicit in covering up evidence of doping.”Although another Republican, Senator John McCain, defended the agency the day after Mr. Sensenbrenner’s intervention, it appears that Mr. Armstrong’s foundation has lobbied other members of Congress on his behalf. As The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday night, “The Lance Armstrong Foundation, the Texas-based charity known as Livestrong, sent a lobbyist to Capitol Hill last week to discuss the funding for the agency that has accused the retired cycling champion of cheating.”A spokesman for Representative José E. Serrano, a Bronx Democrat who sits on the House Appropriations Committee, told The Journal that a “Livestrong lobbyist laid out his concerns about the fairness of Usada’s process.” The congressman’s spokesman, Philip Schmidt, confirmed to The New York Times on Monday that a team of people from Livestrong, including several lobbyists, met with a legislative aide to talk about the antidoping agency, not about the battle against cancer, which is the charity’s stated mission.Although the foundation did not immediately respond to a request for comment by The Times, a spokeswoman for Livestrong told The Journal that the group only lobbies Congress to help victims of cancer get the medical attention they need.A spokeswoman from another Congressional office, who asked that her name not be used so that she could describe a private meeting, said that representatives of Livestrong, including Doug Ulman, the foundation’s president and chief executive, met with the member of Congress she works for while they were on Capitol Hill.Last week, the antidoping agency issued lifetime bans to two doctors and a trainer who worked with Mr. Armstrong, for their roles in what it called, “a sophisticated, far-reaching doping conspiracy.”This year’s Tour de France was marred by further controversy on Tuesday when the star rider on the cycling team managed by Mr. Armstrong’s former manager was ejected from the race after failing a drug test.