Last Updated, Tuesday, 10:52 a.m. As Sebnem Arsu reports, protests continued for a fourth day in major Turkish cities on Monday, one day after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan blamed the unrest on what he called “lies” circulating on Twitter and other social networks.Turkish PM Erdoğan: “There is this curse called Twitter. It’s all lies … That thing called social media is the curse of society today.” — Zeynep Tufekci (@techsoc) 2 Jun 13While supporters of the protest movement clearly do not take the same dim view of social networks as Mr. Erdogan, it is true that, frustrated by the relatively sparse coverage of the demonstrations in the Turkish news media, they have turned to the Web to share images of the protests appearing on foreign news sites and social networks.As a result, Turkish Twitter feeds and Facebook pages have filled with photographs and video of streets shrouded in tear gas, the injuries of wounded protesters and police officers inflicting apparently gratuitous beatings, firing gas canisters and deploying pepper spray at close range.You pick your way through clouds of smoke and gas. No police. Total quiet + devastation, like scifi movie #OccupyGezi //t.co/A9DBD1y9CD — Paul Mason (@paulmasonnews) 3 Jun 13Crowd demands 2 see our press IDs. When they see our US affiliation vent disgust that no Turkish media here #Turkey //t.co/mPqiRTT5pA — C.J. Chivers (@cjchivers) 3 Jun 13Police attack protestors and ordinary people,in İzmir, one of the biggest city of Turkey //t.co/sFcOgGgRw7 — Serhatcan Yurdam (@syurdam) 3 Jun 13Bu iz polisin el izidir. Beni kolumdan suruklediler. //t.co/HpE7V0l284 — BaşakÖzçelik (@basak_ozcelik) 3 Jun 13Tear gas canisters r the most unforgettable memoir of #dayangezi. Not only protestors i just saw a police having his photo taken holding one — Zeynep Erdim (@zeynep_erdim) 3 Jun 13@cjchivers some activity photo for you – god help if you get cornered – appropriate force? //t.co/s26DlL4PjM — yasemin james (@yaseminj) 2 Jun 13Tear gas & disproportionate policing is a funny thing. It works except when it totally backfires. Original Gezi “campers” were a few dozen. — Zeynep Tufekci (@techsoc) 3 Jun 13Zeynep Tufekci, a Turkish sociologist who studies the interaction between technology and protest movements, wrote on her blog that what started as a relatively small protest against the destruction of Gezi Park, a green space in the center of Istanbul, escalated sharply after visual evidence of police brutality against the demonstrators spread online:It was after the Gezi protesters were met with the usual combination of tear gas and media silence something interesting started happening. The news of the protests started circulating around social media, especially on Twitter and Facebook. I follow a sizable number of people in Turkey and my Twitter friends include A.K.P. supporters as well as media and academics. Everyone was aghast at the idea that a small number of young people, trying to protect trees, were being treated so brutally.To illustrate her point, Dr. Tufekci pointed to a photograph of the initial demonstration posted on Twitter by Aaron Stein, an American academic and blogger who has been documenting the protests in Istanbul.Re-upping picture of protests just minutes before tear gas volleys – it WAS rather small //t.co/udZCY7z7mM — Aaron Stein (@aaronstein1) 1 Jun 13Supporters of the protest movement also shared video of the almost pastoral scene of the peaceful protesters in the park before the police attacked the demonstration.As Dr. Tufekci also explained, large demonstrations are not rare in Turkey — thousands filled Taksim Square last October to protest rumors of possible military involvement in Syria. What is rare, though, is mass rallies that are not organized by unions or the political opposition to Mr. Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party, the A.K.P.Some of the most dramatic footage of the police attacking protesters was recorded and posted online by Serdar Akinan, a journalist who was fired from his job in 2011 for using Twitter to report on Turkish air strikes that killed 34 Kurdish civilians mistaken for militants. That catastrophe, Dr. Tufekci noted, was also “ignored by mainstream TV channels” in Turkey, until Mr. Akinan “bought his own plane ticket and ran to the region. His poignant photos of mass lines of coffins, published on Twitter, broke the story and created the biggest political crisis for the government.”As Mr. Stein, the Istanbul-based academic, reported on Twitter, the two events have been explicitly connected by the protesters in Taksim Square, who posted placards on the trees in Gezi Park with the names of the 34 Kurds killed in those airstrikes.Names of those killed in Uludere air strike posted on trees #occupygezi //t.co/rJo10CITyX — Aaron Stein (@aaronstein1) 3 Jun 13When the police fired tear gas at the protesters last week, Mr. Akinan was there to capture the scene on video.Sabah basın açıklaması sonrası polis müdahalesi //t.co/ResLC6ysfv — serdar akinan (@serdarakinan) 31 May 13Stung by the prime minister’s dismissal of them as extremists and liars, the protesters also shared a series of video interviews in which they gave their answers to the question, “Who are these people in Gezi Park?”