Regular Bitten contributor Ed Schneider found ramps the other day — often the first real sign of spring here in New York — and was off and running. –MBLast week, for the first time this year, there were ramps in our little farmers’ market. I love to cook ramps, not so much because of the bulbs (which cook very much like spring onions or scallions) but because of the greens, which collapse to a fraction of their original size even faster than young spinach leaves. It’s fun to watch, a bit like one of those pop-up sponges in reverse. And, of course, ramps, tops and bottoms alike, are delicious, with a delicate onion taste.On my new theory that any seasonal ingredients go together, it would have been lovely to cook these with morels, but getting fresh ones would have involved overcoming my lethargy and leaving the neighborhood, while using the dried kind didn’t seem quite right for my first ramps of spring. But I’d gotten myself fixated on fungi, so I just bought a package of regular white mushrooms from the supermarket. After staring at these for a while, I made crisp porgy fillets with ramp and mushroom hash. The ramps and mushrooms and the polenta would have made a nice dinner on their own, by the way, so you can forget about the fish if you like.First start the hash, much of which you can do an hour in advance: for two or three people, get a generous bunch of ramps or two small ones. Cut off the bulbs including an inch or an inch and a half of the purple part of the stalk; clean these by pulling the microscopically thin outer layer off under water, and trim off the root. Cut the bulbs into one-inch lengths and cut the thicker ones in half on the bias. With the leaves, tear out any particularly tough bits of stem, and tear each leaf in half lengthwise; the fibrous structure of the leaves makes them easy to tear. Wash and drain everything carefully.Cut half a pound of mushrooms into . . . well, to say 3/8-inch dice is a little silly with something the shape of a mushroom, but that’s the kind of size you’re looking for. In a 10-inch skillet, sauté them, seasoned with salt and plenty of black pepper, in two tablespoons of butter over medium heat until a lot of their liquid has come out and they’re lightly browned; this took me six minutes.Drop the heat to low, stir in the ramp bulbs and cover the skillet. Stir every now and again and continue to cook until the ramps are tender, about 10 or 15 minutes. Check for salt and pepper, and leave aside until dinner time.Meanwhile, you’ve got some soft polenta cooking, made with a mixture of milk and water if you like. If you are going the fish route, you’ve also taken some tasty fillets (like porgy), seasoned them and breaded them using an egg wash and crumbs made from decent bread. Japanese panko would work too, even though it is made from bread that is just plain weird.When you’re ready to eat, turn on the heat under the ramp bulbs and mushrooms to medium-high. Add half a cup of heavy cream and when it comes to the boil put in the ramp greens and stir around with tongs; in no time, they’ll wilt, but they’ll remain slightly chewy, which is part of the point. Simultaneously, fry the breaded fish in clarified butter or a neutral-tasting oil.To serve, check the seasoning of the ramp-mushroom hash and put some of it on each plate. Top it with fried fish (or don’t) and plop some polenta down next door. A spritz of lemon juice on the fish is a good idea. The parsley you see in the photograph was pretty but entirely unnecessary.