Emily WeinsteinEmily Weinstein, who wrote a series on this blog about learning to cook, is now learning to bake with Dorie Greenspan, a food writer and the author of several cookbooks, including the recent “Around My French Table.”LESSON 11: Rugelach (From “Baking: From My Home to Yours”)Techniques and tips discussed: the makings of “easy” dough; achieving a larger cookie; savory horizons.Rugelach are among the few sweets I’d written about before I began baking with Dorie Greenspan’s guidance, in a post for this blog ominously titled, “The Ugly Cookie.”I won’t give the ending away here.Now, two years later, Dorie wrote to me and said that, since I had made pie and tart dough before, this one would “be cinchy.” (Clearly she had not read the aforementioned post.) Made with cream cheese, she wrote, “the dough is very rich and very short, meaning that it has a lot of fat: by weight you have almost equal amounts of cream cheese, butter and flour. That it comes together beautifully and works easily seems improbable, but happily it’s so.”Even better, the dough is made in a food processor. “You’d have to go out of you way to mix it too much,” Dorie wrote.More tips from Dorie:You want the cream cheese and butter to be cool. Take them out of the refrigerator only about 10 minutes before you’re ready to work.Process only until the dough forms curds. You don’t want it to come together in a ball – you’ll gather it into a ball with your hands when it comes out of the machine.If you’d like to mix things up and make changes to the filling, go for it – use whatever kinds of nuts and spices you like. If you’re using jam or marmalade — this recipe calls for it, but you don’t have to — you want to use a very thin layer of it. No matter how little you use, it’s still going to bubble up and it will burn in places on the baking sheet around the cookies. I never mind, but if you think you will, you can omit the jam and just brush the dough with a little melted butter before sprinkling on the cinnamon sugar.About the cutting and shaping: using a pizza wheel to cut the dough produces less drag than you’d get with a knife. That said, a knife works, too.I made the dough, and Dorie was right: it was no trouble at all. I just processed it until I had large, pillowy curds. Then I turned it out onto the counter, formed two discs, and put them in the fridge to chill.I used to dislike all the chilling and waiting of baking, but there is something nice about having your day broken up by the dough. You’re not confined to the kitchen. Here, that meant I was able to go out to a party to eat some latkes between chilling and rolling and shaping the dough into cookies, which I left in the fridge overnight and baked the next morning.They came out tiny — about an inch long — and crisp and brown, with a flaky crust. The tidiness of rolling the rugelach into crescents was offset by the filling that seeped out in rustic smudges. I made some with walnuts, currants, cinnamon, sugar and jam; others with that mix plus mini chocolate chips; and the remainders with just the chocolate, cinnamon and sugar.Too small? Too dense? Too something that was not quite the platonic ideal? I asked Dorie, to whom I had passed a few along. They were the right size, and appropriately dense too, she said. “I just happen to like them small. It’s a rich little pastry. I like the idea of just a bite, two bites, three bites. But that’s just my preference. If you want them big, you can make them big.”(Should you choose to go larger, Dorie suggested rolling the dough into rectangles instead of circles, and cut the dough into bigger triangles that way. In that situation, you would ultimately get more layers of filling and dough. “Not my style,” she added. “But you could do it.”)On the subject of modifications, you could also roll the dough into a log, like a jelly roll, and slice the cookies individually, a method suggested to me at the aforementioned latke party, and one Dorie said also worked fine.“This is the fun of it — it’s all personal preference,” she said. “It’s a neutral dough. There’s no sugar in it. You could make a little turnover with potato inside of it. You could put jam and chocolate and fruit and make a dumpling out of it.” Bacon and cheese rugelach, rugelach with red pepper jelly and nuts — savory territory waiting to be explored and eaten with drinks.