After The Los Angeles Times announced last week that its restaurant reviewers would no longer give out stars , a couple of commenters on Diner’s Journal suggested that The New York Times should follow suit.Suzanne F. thought we should snuff out the stars because “readers (and presumably restaurants) have no idea what the criteria are, so cannot understand how/why stars are assigned or not. There is much discussion on food chat boards about the star assignments, little if any of it based on knowing the critics’ criteria — which criteria seem to vary from critic to critic, and from review to review for any given critic.”Marc Shepherd concurred. “I’m gradually coming around to the view that the current system ought to be scrapped,” he wrote. “I do think ratings have some utility, but the current system has become meaningless.” (To his credit, Mr. Shepherd began to walk the walk on Monday, when he abandoned stars on his restaurant-review blog, New York Journal. Now he says he will rate restaurants with a system of his own devising.)I spent some time this week rooting around the office looking for the leather-bound volume of criteria for awarding stars that Craig Claiborne wrote on parchment paper with his ostrich quill, using squid ink he harvested himself off the coast of Long Island. Funny, it must be around here somewhere, but I can’t lay my hands on it right now.Actually, there never was such a book. Before I took over as critic I was the Dining editor, and I worked with the critics Frank Bruni and Sam Sifton. If there were criteria for handing out stars, I imagine I would have seen them.There is only one written guideline that I’ve seen. If you read restaurant reviews in The Times, you’ve seen it, too. Every week it appears in a box in the paper, or at the end of the text online:“WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction primarily to food, with ambiance, service and price taken into consideration.”This has been running for as long as I can remember, although we did make one small change when I took over in January: we added “primarily.”The wording was in use back in Ruth Reichl’s day. I don’t know why it was changed, but when I came across it late last year I thought it made a lot of sense. After all, readers intuitively understand that job No. 1 for a restaurant critic is to assess the food. This wording acknowledges what everybody already knows: The food comes first.Of course, there is something else written down, something that all Times critics refer to: the archives of all published reviews. We all pay attention to precedent, although each critic has to interpret the precedent in his or her own way.So readers like Suzanne F. who sense that the significance of the stars changes from critic to critic are right, of course. No two critics are going to have the same reaction to a restaurant, and no two critics are going to come up with identical interpretations of the precedent. The whole process of critiquing restaurants is inherently subjective. Readers are free to disagree with the critic. Go ahead and throw the newspaper across the room if you like. That’s part of the fun. (Unfortunately, throwing your laptop across the room isn’t nearly as satisfying.)Whether you think that renders the stars meaningless depends entirely on what you expect them to do. If you hope they are going to organize the entire New York City restaurant scene into an objective and verifiable hierarchy of good, better and best, you’re going to find that the reviews are a weekly exercise in frustration. (A corollary: If you read the reviews believing that all restaurants with a given number of stars are meant to be equally good, you’re going to lose your mind.)On the other hand, if you understand that the stars accompany a review of at least 1,000 words, I hope you’ll believe that they do have meaning. The reviews have to cover a lot of ground. They tell you what kind of restaurant is being reviewed, how it looks and feels, how customers are treated, how some of the dishes taste and often whether it’s worth the price. A star ranking from zero to four can’t do any of those things in any meaningful way, but it can try to serve as shorthand for how strongly the reviewer is recommending the restaurant.Finally, now that the lead is good and buried: We’re keeping the stars.