Tony Cenicola/The New York TimesHumbled, astounded and perplexed by the swift passage of time, I recently attended a 30th reunion of my college graduating class at Wesleyan University. I would like to stipulate that 30 years away from school has confirmed the wise choice of friends I made so long ago. We are all more brilliant, creative, convivial, handsome and beautiful than I remembered, and getting more so every day.One unexpectedly enjoyable aspect of the reunion was meeting people I had never known as a student. How, I wondered, could I have spent four years in school and not spent time with these smart, interesting people?Partly, I guess, it’s leaving oneself open to the experience. I feel similarly about wine. It’s one thing to have developed satisfying relationships with a number of bottles that you can return to again and again for fulfillment. But so many other kinds of wine from so many other parts of the world are out there, waiting to be tasted, enjoyed and—who knows?—maybe even loved.So I will take this opportunity to remind myself to try to be as open as I can be to new wines from unfamiliar producers in different places. The diversity of wines we have available to us today is unmatched in history—in terms of grapes, styles and geography—and I think it would be a shame not to try to take full advantage of it.At the reunion, I had two wine-related tasks. The first was to lead a wine tasting—a cheap wine tasting, the university requested—and the second was to select a red and a white—really, really cheap, the university requested—that could be served at any of the campus-wide events during the reunion weekend.The tasting was easy. I resisted the request to go cheap and instead proposed to emphasize value: great wines averaging about $20 a bottle. I could have chosen wines from anywhere in the world, but instead I decided to focus on the Loire Valley, not only the rebellious heart of French winemaking today, but also a source of some of the world’s great wine values.The five wines were just great: a sparkling Vouvray from François Pinon, a muscadet from Domaine de la Pépière, a Sancerre from Gerard Boulay, a Chinon from Bernard Baudry and a wild card, Cheville de Fer, a Loire côt, or malbec from Les Vins Contés, the negociant arm of Olivier Lemasson.I call it a wild card because, while the other wines were beautiful examples of mainstream styles, the côt was really out there, produced in a hypernatural fashion that made no allowances for mainstream tastes.The crowd at the tasting was divided. On the geeky side, one person said the wine reminded him of Beaujolais – very astute! The wine actually tasted nothing like Beaujolais, but it was made using the carbonic maceration method, typical of much of Beaujolais, which gave the wine a freshness and makes it highly aromatic, like a Beaujolais.On the other side, some people found the wine undrinkable. But they were open-minded enough to give it another chance as I stood up, rhapsodizing about the wine’s beautiful funk. It had an earthy, almost animal aroma that I found compelling, but that I understand would be perplexing for many people.The wine was a great example of the diversity that I mentioned. A certain percentage of the people who tasted this wine were going to hate it, no matter what I said. Another fraction was going to love it instantly. But most people were puzzled by it, though curious enough to keep going back to it to try to understand what I found so appealing about the wine. How great is it that we have access to challenging wines like these!My second task, picking the supercheap wines, was not so easy. I’ve made the case several times that the best values in wine today were in the $10 to $20 range, but these bottles had to be under $10. The white worked out fine. I picked a 2007 Rueda from Naia, a delicious, cheap minerally wine. The red, not so well. A couple of ideas I had weren’t readily available, so I went with a wine that I had never tasted, a 2008 Montsant Sola Fred from Cellar el Masroig.Nothing wrong with the wine, but it was the sort of fruit-forward, unstructured red that I find tiresome. For big events – weddings, celebrations, whatever – finding one delicious thing to drink is essential. The Naia filled that role well.