Emily Weinstein/The New York TimesEmily Weinstein is learning to bake with the food writer and cookbook author Dorie Greenspan. This week, Sarabeth Levine, of Sarabeth’s Kitchen, steps in as a special guest instructor, per Dorie’s suggestion. She is an expert in all things pie. Dorie will return next week.LESSON 4: PEACH OR APPLE PIE (From “Sarabeth’s Bakery: From My Hands to Yours,” coming in October)“Don’t be afraid of it, it’s just food!” said Sarabeth Levine, owner of Sarabeth’s Kitchen, when the dough developed a hairline fracture as she rolled it out. She patched it with a scrap. “No problem.”We were standing in her big open kitchen at Chelsea Market in Manhattan, where she was teaching me how to make her rustic apple streusel pie. With folds of dough drawn up around the filling, topped off with a few handfuls of crumbs, its aesthetic was more free-spirited, forgiving, than other pies. “I want you to go home and be able to reproduce what I do,” she said. “It should look like the way I make it.”The phrase “easy as pie” must refer to eating pie, not baking it — or at least, baking it in an attractive manner. I’ve made three in a row now — three tries, three pies — one apple and two peach, each eliciting the same response from friends when I bemoan the messiness of the crust: “It’s meant to be rustic!”Emily Weinstein/The New York TimesI realize there is such a thing as a beautifully messy pie, a top crust whose perfection lies in its bumps and uneven browns and golds. But mine just looked sort of messy, period. It was the difference between a designer taking a pair of scissors to a shirt, and me doing it myself at home. Not the same. My pies not only didn’t resemble Sarabeth’s example, they were too rustic to even really be related. They were distant cousins, maybe, from the old country.Tips from Sarabeth:A recipe is like a road map. “If you have to get to Chicago by car, you better get the map out,” she said. If you read the recipe through twice before you begin, “you will know where you’re going.”A technique for cutting apples neatly, no corer necessary: peel the apples and then slice each vertically, core intact. Place each apple half face down on the cutting board, and work your way around it with the knife, cutting it into quarter-inch slices. Finally, trim off any bit of core that may be on each apple slice.Taste your apples — add sugar as necessary.Don’t overwork the dough. Handling it too much activates the gluten, which toughens it.Now this was not my first try at pie making. I tried making it two years ago, with help from my father, as part of a series I wrote on this blog about learning to cook. But this was my first solo try, in my own kitchen. I stood at my counter and created the mise en place — “I still do this, even after all these years,” Sarabeth told me — and made the dough, which, to my delight, looked exactly like hers.This small victory was satisfying enough to send me sailing into Part 2 of the recipe: slicing the four pounds of tart Granny Smith apples into clean half moons while the dough chilled in the refrigerator.As I neared the end of apple slicing, I took out the dough — it had been chilling for far longer than an hour and I thought it might need to loosen up. Then I made the streusel topping and did some dishes to make room on the counter. Without thinking about it 30 minutes went by. This was not smart. But I didn’t know that until I scattered flour on the counter and rolled out the dough, which was a bit wet.After rolling it out, not too hard, not too soft, to what I thought appeared to be the prescribed 15 inches, I moved it to the pan, which it filled, but just barely. It was clear there would not be enough to fold up around the mound of apples I added next. Facing two options — bake the pie or toss the pie — I decided to just bake it, figuring the best way to salvage it was to hastily triple the streusel topping and spread it over the top. The finished pie was sweet in a way I knew was wrong — all that extra sugar topping — but tasty enough. It was not, however, Sarabeth’s pie.And so I tried again, but with peaches that had just ripened to a beautiful state of juiciness. I took care with pie No. 2 to make sure the dough was cold enough when I rolled it out. I also measured its diameter this time, making sure there would be extra to drape over the filling. The pie turned out far better than the first, but it still wasn’t quite right. I hadn’t used enough peaches, and so the top was slightly concave. Also, it lacked sweetness, which left the flavor a bit flat. This surprised me — I should have tasted the peaches first and adjusted the sugar.For the third and final pie, this time made with late-summer peaches, I used twice as many pieces of fruit. I followed every step to the letter. I even pulled out measuring tape and checked the depth of the rolled out dough. The pie had a nice, subtle domed shape, but the juice from the peaches crept up at the edges, subsuming the edge of the crust, forming a sticky, rich-hued halo.Looks-wise, it was still rustic, not as effortless and neat looking as Sarabeth’s, but I had made my peace with this pie. And flavor-wise, it was delicious, the way you intuitively expect good pie to taste.