Kerri Conan, the Kansas-based food writer who has been my co-author on a number of projects and will contribute to Bitten whenever I can persuade her to do so, is as diligent and creative a cook as any I know. When I asked her why no one ever made socca — chickpea flatbread — with other flours, she immediately set about trying out alternatives and devised this whole wheat flatbread. I’ve made it — and you should too. It’s lovely, with heft and flavor — and easy. –MBMark and I both have a jones for socca. Ever since he wrote a Minimalist column about it I’ve been making it almost every week.Socca is the ultimate skillet quick bread: just water, besan — chickpea flour — and salt, whisked together and poured into a bubbling skillet of hot olive oil. Bake it for less than an hour, completely unattended. Pass it under the broiler, or not. Add flavoring ingredients (more on that in a minute), or not. Cut it into wedges or squares and bring the warm pan to the table: instant starch. Crisp, creamy, flaky, flavorful, and perfectly greasy. Socca has it all going on.New Yorkers know this. You can get socca at restaurants now, and if you want to make it yourself, there are lots of places to find besan (which is available in Indian, Asian, and Middle Eastern markets, and even some bodegas). But not in Bonner Springs, Kansas. Like any addict, I travel far for the stuff and buy it in 10-pound bags. (Half for the freezer; half for the pantry.)My girlfriends down at the Y have never tried socca, however, so that got me thinking about what would happen if Mark and I tried making socca with more accessible flours. We could lose the fancy name and just call it flatbread.It turned out to be as easily said as done: Heat the oven to 450. Start with 1 cup of whole wheat flour or cornmeal. (Or a mixture. I’m also guessing this technique would work for just about any whole grain flour; buckwheat would turn out like a giant blini, right?) If you want a creamy, custardy texture, add 3 cups water. If you want something more cracker-like go with 1 cup of water. Anywhere in between will fall somewhere on the soft-crisp continuum; I’ve settled on 1 1/2 cups. Add a good pinch of salt and whisk until smooth.You can let the batter sit on the counter as long as you like, up to 12 hours, covered with a towel. The flour obviously absorbs more water and the mixture will separate, so you whisk it again. But the benefits are subtle. Just let it sit while the oven heats.Like everything about this deal, the pan is also variable. You want a well-seasoned ovenproof skillet or rimmed pizza pan (note from Mark: or a socca or farinata pan, made of tin-lined copper and sold in Provence and Liguria); use a 10-inch and the flatbread will be marginally thicker than it would be in a 12-inch pan. Pour enough olive oil into the bottom so it sloshes around just a bit. If you want to add chopped onion, shallots, garlic, or herbs, now is the time. Pop the pan in the oven to heat until just fragrant (not smoking) then pour the batter in. You’ll see it swirls around and bubbles, cooking fast in some spots, pooling oil in others. All good. You’re just upping the flakiness factor.Bake for 30 to 40 minutes. It will release from the pan when it’s ready. Flip it over if you want both sides really crisp. Or top it with some sauce and cheese like pizza and pass it under the broiler. Let cool for a sec, then cut as you like and serve from the pan or a board.