Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesYes, just one. But it’s not just any dish — it’s Daniel Humm’s roast chicken for two at The NoMad, talked about more avidly and incessantly than any other new restaurant offering in town, going back perhaps as far as the introduction of the Bo Ssam around the beginning of 2007.It’s an unlikely dish to have captured the hummingbird gaze of New York foodies. For one, it’s utterly premodernist in its ingredients and techniques; Escoffier would have recognized it. Even more remarkable, the star of this dish is chicken breast. Yes, it comes to the table with a little iron cocotte of dark meat sautéed with mushrooms and shallots — a little fricassee that’s good enough to make the reputation of a lesser restaurant. But all the people swooning are swooning over the white meat, basted with melting foie gras and scented with black truffles. On Tuesday, before my review of The NoMad was published, I asked the restaurant’s executive chef and partner, Daniel Humm, to walk me through the stuffing, roasting and carving of that chicken.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesThe NoMad’s roast chicken starts — hang on for this breaking news bulletin — with a raw chicken. It’s from an Amish farm in Pennsylvania, and Mr. Humm went to some trouble to get it in exactly the condition he wanted: uncut. It arrives at the restaurant with its head, feet and even its innards intact. Getting the chicken in this state took some bureaucratic wrangling, but it was worth it to Mr. Humm because gutting and beheading the poultry on site ensures that the skin won’t be torn.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesUndamaged skin matters, because it has to contain the stuffing. First, the cooks use their fingers and hands to gently pry the skin away from the breast. To make the stuffing, whole raw foie gras is tempered and then passed through a tamis. Black truffles and brioche are stirred into the foie gras, making some of the most expensive bread crumbs in town. This is piped beneath the skin with a pastry bag.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesNext, the cavity is stuffed with a lemon and some rosemary leaves before the chicken is trussed. Once tied up, it spends several hours in the refrigerator as the stuffing firms up — there’s so much foie gras fat in it that it might melt in the kitchen’s heat.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesRight off the NoMad’s dining room is a Wood Stone oven lined with stones that radiate heat from the bottom, top and sides. Mr. Humm couldn’t get a wood-burning oven for the space, and calls this model “as close as you can get.” The heat of the oven — about 450 degrees — might dry out the white meat if it weren’t protected by the layer of stuffing. The fat from the foie gras crisps the skin from the inside, and a basting of butter that is brushed on just before roasting crisps it from outside, to produce the magnificent nut-brown sheen.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesThat skin literally turns heads in the dining room each time one of the chickens is presented at a table. The flag of fresh herbs comes along for the ride, and its piney aroma combined with the smell of the chicken itself has a pretty strong effect on the mood and appetite of the diner. I can testify to that. The anticipation can become extremely hard to handle when the chicken is whisked away a moment later.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesThe chicken looks ready to eat, but in fact the legs are undercooked. The kitchen carves them off and cuts the dark meat from the bones. It will finish cooking in a separate little recipe that takes about two minutes.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesThe two-minute dark meat recipe: In a medium sauté pan, melt butter and sauté shallots, then add morel mushrooms. Add the dark meat with chicken stock, turn down the heat and gently reduce the sauce until the chicken is cooked through.And another recipe, made in advance, for a vin jaune hollandaise, as described by Mr. Humm: “It’s eggs, it’s clarified butter, then a reduction of wine. You take vin jaune” — literally “yellow wine,” a white wine made in the Jura that is sometimes compared to fino sherry — “with a little bit of shallot, black pepper, a little tarragon. You reduce that wine and strain it and add it to the eggs and butter. You put that in a whipped cream canister, because it makes things so easy. We put it in a water bath so it cooks the eggs, but not overcooked. You charge it with a CO2 cartridge and there–you have a perfect hollandaise.”The hollandaise is squirted on the dark meat just before it leaves the kitchen.Daniel Krieger for The New York TimesMr. Humm says this process takes no longer than three minutes. It feels much, much longer as you sit in the dining room, looking at the empty place before you, wondering where your lovely chicken has gone.And then — it returns. The breast has been carved from the carcass and carefully split in two. One half goes on one plate, one half on the other, with the brioche stuffing above the meat and that brown skin above the stuffing. Although Mr. Humm is a master at deploying color in his dishes, he keeps this one muted, almost monochromatic. White asparagus, raw and cooked, and truffled potato purée aren’t allowed to detract from the impression made by that stunning skin.And that, ladies and gentlemen, is how the chef Daniel Humm made chicken breast sexy again in the year 2012.