PhotoThe answer is we don’t know, because the data aren’t reliable, especially for South Sudan. But as I write in my column, it’s possible — and that’s staggering considering how little attention South Sudan has received. The Tyndall Report says that television network evening news programs provided zero coverage of South Sudan’s civil war in 2015.So here are the (dubious) numbers. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights estimates that 13,249 civilians were killed in Syria in fighting in 2015 (many more combatants were killed, on both government and rebel sides). In South Sudan, we don’t have solid figures, but a U.N. official has estimated 50,000 deaths total over a bit more than two years, and another has said simply “tens of thousands.” Sue Lautze, the deputy humanitarian coordinator for the U.N. in South Sudan, told me that she has been unable to derive an accurate death count but that if pressed, she believes the 50,000 estimate “may well be an underestimation.” Likewise, Jehanne Henry of Human Rights Watch, who has spent her time bouncing around remote parts of the country, says of the 50,000 estimate: “I think the figure is probably higher but really don’t have any scientific way to show it. The gap in the death toll information encapsulates how neglected this conflict is — no one is even counting the dead.” AFP has suggested that the total death toll could be as high as 300,000.One rare data point is a mortality study in just one area of South Sudan, Unity State. It found about 8,000 deaths from violence and drowning (while escaping fighting) over a one-year period in 24 communities representing about one-quarter of the state’s population. Those include combatant deaths, but in South Sudan the fighters mostly avoid each other and just target civilians, so the great majority in the case of South Sudan are civilian deaths. So remember — that is 8,000 deaths in just one year and just one part of one state, and just from violence.The majority of deaths in a war like South Sudan’s come not from fighting but from “excess mortality” caused by war. That means from malnutrition and disease that take more lives because people can’t farm or get medical care in war time. The most lethal conflict since World War II, according to mortality studies, is the one that has sputtered for many years in Eastern Congo, taking millions of lives, and only a tiny share of those were from bullets; the great majority were from disease and malnutrition. The same is true in South Sudan. In normal times, more than 100,000 South Sudanese die each year, including senior citizens dying of old age and babies dying of hunger or disease (about 10 percent of children do not make it to the age of five). It’s also true in Syria that the war causes excess mortality from hunger and disease, but it’s a smaller share: Most of the civilians killed by war in Syria die from bullets or bombs; most in South Sudan die from disease or malnutrition.PhotoThere’s no doubt the mortality rate increased significantly in South Sudan since the war began in December 2013. More than 2 million South Sudanese are displaced, many cannot plant crops, many don’t get bed nets to fight off malaria, and many no longer have access to medical care. I encountered many families who lost children to mundane causes, and that was true even in areas away from the fighting (like Aweil) where food is now scarce as a result of the civil war. And if the mortality rate increased by 25 percent because of the war, that’s more than another 25,000 civilians dying annually, or 50,000 over two years, as a consequence of the fighting, in addition to those who die from violence.We don’t know how to weigh these figures properly, and we may never know. But it does seem to me that the South Sudanese toll among civilians in the last year or two may well be as great as in Syria, perhaps greater (although combatant casualties were clearly greater in Syria). The point is not that Syria should get less coverage — on the contrary, Syria should receive more attention for the tragedy unfolding there, and that’s why I’ve reported on it — but I wish South Sudan could also get high level humanitarian and diplomatic attention, especially because the United States and other Western countries midwifed this country and bear some responsibility for the tragedy unfolding here. It is a disgrace that at last count, the U.N. humanitarian appeal for South Sudan was only 3 percent funded. As the U.N. human rights chief, Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, says, “This is one of the most horrendous human rights situations in the world . . . yet it has been more or less off the international radar.”