After the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, oil prices fell sharply, although they had been trending upward for weeks as events in the Middle East rattled the markets.What forces will move the oil markets in the weeks ahead? Is another big price jump likely? I asked Jad Mouawad, a veteran energy reporter, for perspective on these issues in the new Weekend Business podcast.Although the margin for safety has narrowed because of the conflict in Libya, global oil supplies are still ample, he said, and additional supplies have been coming online since the last price spike in 2008. The ramifications of the disaster in Japan are not yet clear.In another podcast conversation, Richard Thaler, the University of Chicago economist, discussed some new apps and Web sites that aim to make newly released government data more practical for consumers. The Obama administration endorses a collaborative approach, which Mr. Thaler describes in the Economic View column in the Sunday Business section of The New York Times. Some of these online data initiatives are controversial. The airlines, for example, oppose an administration proposal for immediate online release of all airline prices, not just for tickets but also for “extras” like baggage, movies, food and beverages.A sampling of some new apps and Web sites in this burgeoning domain will be posted separately online.Meanwhile, Starbucks, the ubiquitous coffee chain, is celebrating its 40th anniversary amid a corporate retooling led by its founder, Howard D. Schultz. Claire Cain Miller covers the turnaround effort in a Sunday Business article and, with David Gillen on the podcast, discusses the global prospects for the company.Finally, a comparison of the valuation and market outlook for blue-chip stocks in the United States and Europe is the focus of Paul Lim’s Fundamentally column in Sunday Business. On the podcast, he says that while European stocks are, on the whole, priced more cheaply than those in the United States, the consensus on Wall Street may be tilted toward American shares this year. The stock-by-stock details are crucial, however.In a news summary, I also discuss proposals for resolving financial tensions in the European Union; the approval of a new lupus drug in the United States; and a new Madoff controversy at the Securities and Exchange Commission.As articles discussed in the podcast are published, links will be added in this post.You can download the show by subscribing from the New York Times podcast page or directly from iTunes.And you can find specific segments at these junctures: Jad Mouawad on Japan, the Mideast, and the price of oil (29:10); headlines (22:05); David Gillen and Claire Cain Miller on Starbucks (19:34); Richard Thaler on new apps based on government data (13:41); Paul Lim on blue chips (6:43); the week ahead (0:56).