China’s economy grew just 6.9 percent in 2015, deepening a deceleration that had been underway for years, and government revenues grew 5.8 percent, more than three percentage points less than in 2014. But the government faces rising costs for health care, social welfare and other civilian outlays.Dennis J. Blasko, a retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and the author of “The Chinese Army Today,” said that China’s annual military expenditure was generally kept in line with gross domestic product plus inflation and that a single-digit increase for 2016 was in keeping with that formula.“This is consistent with the way the economy has been going, and that’s the way the military budget has been determined for the last 20 years,” Mr. Blasko said. “The whole point is not to overburden the economy with military expenditures.”He said Chinese leaders were also aware that throwing large amounts of money at the military, as the Soviet Union did, is not the way to modernize it. “They look at the example of the Soviet Union, which flushed billions down the drain on the military, and that was the reason for its collapse,” Mr. Blasko said.Mr. Xu, the retired general, said that the lower defense outlays for this year also probably reflected a temporary slowdown in the tempo of equipment modernization and that the pace would pick up again in the coming years.“There’s a certain cycle in developing and producing weapons and equipment,” Mr. Xu said. “It fluctuates. It isn’t in a straight line.”Ms. Fu on Friday defended China’s activities in the South China Sea, where it is in a dispute with the Philippines, Vietnam and other neighbors over rival claims to islands. Beijing has been turning reefs and outcrops in the sea into man-made islands with military outposts, but it says that its intentions are peaceful. Last month, China installed surface-to-air missiles on Woody Island, about 180 miles southeast of Hainan, a Chinese island province.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMs. Fu accused the United States of provoking public ire in China by sending naval ships close to islands claimed by Beijing. “This is extremely irritating to Chinese people, who feel disgusted,” she said.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Today’s Headlines: Asia Edition Get news and analysis from Asia and around the world delivered to your inbox every day in the Asian morning. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.“American actions and statements now leave people feeling that it’s provoking tense emotions, and it makes people put a big question mark over American motives,” Ms. Fu said.Jin Canrong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, said the relatively modest increase in military spending was partly a gesture to mollify China’s neighbors about its intentions in the South China Sea — specifically, the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. “They are the pillars of China’s diplomacy in the region,” Mr. Jin said.President Obama hosted the leaders of the Southeast Asian countries in California last month, in a move that vexed China, telling them that Washington stood in solidarity with them as they faced growing military and economic challenges.But Mr. Jin said the slowdown in military spending was also prompted by domestic concerns. He said Beijing was living up to a promise to spend more on social welfare programs to support the poor during China’s economic slowdown. “Now is not the correct time to dramatically increase the military budget,” he said.Mr. Jin said it was “very possible” that the People’s Liberation Army would be disappointed in the single-digit spending increase, but he noted that the military would continue to see benefits from significant expenditures announced in recent years. “In the coming two or three years China will get a lot of new equipment,” he said. “The impact of this slowdown will be five years ahead.”