It would be one thing if Mr. Bush’s push against the base were heard only at dinner parties on the Upper East Side or in Alexandria, Va., or if Mr. Bush were planning to move a bit toward the right during the primary season. But it doesn’t seem as if either will be true. Another colleague, Jonathan Martin, wrote last week that Mr. Bush didn’t want to alter his “persona to satisfy his party’s hard-liners” if he runs.This “persona,” perhaps along with his association with his brother’s often activist view of government, is probably creating a bigger problem for Mr. Bush on his right flank than one might guess based on his policies alone.A Monmouth University poll, published on Tuesday, showed that Mr. Bush held a tepid 39 percent favorability rating among Tea Party supporters, with 38 percent unfavorable — worse than any other major potential nominee except for Chris Christie. He held a better though hardly impressive plus-15 rating among non-Tea Party Republicans. Similarly, a McClatchy/Marist poll showed Mr. Bush with just 8 percent of the vote among Tea Party supporters, enough for fifth place, compared with 21 percent among non-Tea Party supporters (among whom he led).Mr. Bush could still win even if Tea Party supporters opposed him by a wide margin. Mr. Romney managed to steer down the same narrow path to victory in 2012. It’s a path that starts by consolidating the establishment wing of the party in the invisible primary. It ends by winning a protracted fight against an underfunded conservative opponent who can’t break through in the delegate-rich blue states that are often needed to win the party’s nomination, even though the party struggles to win them in presidential elections.It is an arduous path to victory. But candidates with the favor of the establishment have won nearly every recent nominating contest for a reason: It brings big advantages. And the Republican establishment doesn’t appear to have too many other choices. If top G.O.P. donors are indeed choosing between Mr. Bush, Mr. Christie and Mr. Romney, they might not have a better option than Mr. Bush.But Mr. Bush is not a particularly strong candidate either. He may have friends in the donor class, but he hasn’t run for office in a decade, and he enters with no base of support among the G.O.P. primary electorate. He may not be lucky enough to face an opponent as flawed as Mr. Santorum or Mr. Huckabee. This year’s Republican candidates have the potential to be far stronger than in recent cycles, and if one builds momentum, the establishment’s early, anointed pick might not be able to stop him.