When Paris was attacked last month, politicians and pundits fell all over themselves rushing to proclaim what Washington should do next in the war on terror. The vast majority of them would have done better to keep quiet and read Charlie Savage’s new book, “Power Wars,” instead. It offers a master class in how to think seriously about crucial aspects of the subject.A Pulitzer Prize winner, a reporter for The New York Times and the author of an earlier book on the George W. Bush administration, Savage provides a comprehensive, authoritative history of the legal side of national security policy making during the Obama years. That might sound dry and forbidding, especially in a book so dense and long (almost 700 ­pages of text). But anyone truly interested in foreign policy or national security should find it essential and enthralling, thanks to the author’s intelligence, objectivity, legwork and literary skill.Savage has the instincts of a journalist but the soul of a wonk. He understands that policy making is about choice, and for every issue discussed — from detention and interrogation of terrorist suspects, to surveillance and targeting, to the White House’s tussles with Congress over war powers — he methodically describes the problems administration officials faced, the options they considered and why they decided as they did. Readers come away understanding not just what happened but why — and the legitimate grounds for agreeing or disagreeing with the choices made.The heroes of the book are well-­intentioned officials struggling to balance the competing demands of legality, democracy and national security. One senses that whether or not Savage agrees with their specific positions, he respects the honest people “in the arena,” as Theodore Roose­velt put it, who try to find the least bad course in a fallen world. The villains, meanwhile, are not only the actual bad guys but also those officials who don’t grasp the full intellectual, moral and practical responsibilities of their positions. For example, Savage has nothing but icy contempt for an intelligence court judge who makes a dodgy ruling accompanied by procedural irregularities and doesn’t even bother to write an opinion explaining his reasoning. And his portrait of cynical politicians who demagogue counterterrorism policy is scathing.