PhotoIn the kitchen of Per Se, the wallet-busting restaurant on Columbus Circle, there is a sign of blue tiles reading “Sense of Urgency” on the wall. That — the urgency — arrived a little early last month when, at 6:15 one evening, there were already eight tickets — seven tasting menus and an à la carte snapper — stacked up on the rail.The pleasant hush of the cocktail hour was over, and three calottes de boeuf grillée were sputtering like split wicks in a pan. Platters clanked; saucepans sizzled; the harried garde manger was fidgeting with his peach palms. The servers at the marble-countered “pass” — there to receive the finished dishes — shifted from one foot to the other like gamblers waiting anxiously at the track.Then another dupe came in, and David Breeden, the head chef for the evening, called the ticket loud enough for everyone to hear. “Order for two — one tasting, one veg!” he shouted like a captain of artillery. “One and one!” the kitchen shouted back.You would think that in a lingering recession, the real urgency at Per Se would come from money matters, from the natural inclination of budget-conscious eaters to set aside their Visas for the moment and sate themselves on $13 Kung Pao chicken dinners instead of on a menu whose base cost is $275 a head.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBut in fact, the kitchen — 5,000 steel-and-tile square feet of it — is a lesson in the little-known field of gastro-economics: When it comes to fine dining in New York, the fiscal situation is often irrelevant. Elites will always and forever be elites.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.“People are still going out to eat,” said Jonathan Benno, the chef de cuisine. While Per Se has endured a 10 percent drop in reservations and has started offering a less expensive à la carte Salon Menu in the lounge, Chef Benno said that this provided the chance “for the concierge at the Mandarin to call up Mr. and Mrs. Smith from Chicago and quickly slip them in.”