It is unclear if Mr. Trump will stay at his penthouse triplex in Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, where his wife, Melania, and son Barron live. He may instead choose to stay at his country house in New Jersey, on the grounds of the Trump National Golf Course in Bedminster, about an hour’s drive from New York in the middle of horse country. The 1939 red brick Georgian Revival mansion has been referred to as Mr. Trump’s Camp David North. He met there with candidates for his cabinet during his time as president-elect.The township is still waiting to be reimbursed by the federal government for those earlier stays, when it spent $300,000, drafting some of its 16-member police force to help protect Mr. Trump, according to Bedminster’s part-time mayor, Steven E. Parker, a Republican who owns a local airport.The 500-acre golf course sits behind an iron gate on winding Lamington Road, surrounded by horse farms. And while Mr. Trump won the township by a slim margin of about 40 votes, the mayor does not expect the same sort of demonstrations for which the city is bracing. “I am sure there will be a lot of curiosity seekers, but as I look at the lay of the land in Bedminster, we are not like New York City,” Mr. Parker said.Over the iron gates of the golf club, there is little to see, and few but neighboring horses to pay a demonstrator much attention. “If you want to protest, you want to be seen,” Mr. Parker said. “Maybe I’ll be proven wrong, but I don’t see a great venue that would be effective if you were somebody who wanted to put up signs that either you love him or don’t love him.”In Manhattan, some merchants said Mr. Trump had already been bad for business, even without setting foot in Trump Tower.At Il Tinello, a restaurant just south of Trump Tower, sales dropped by 30 percent when Mr. Trump was in residence as president-elect, with customers turned off by crowds and congestion, said the owner, John Goçi. He said he was resigned to Mr. Trump’s return.“He’s hurt me so much already, he can’t hurt me anymore,” Mr. Goçi said. “It hurts your bills, mortgages, family, kids in college.” But the proximity pains him emotionally as well, said Mr. Goçi, an Albanian who arrived here over 30 years ago as an undocumented immigrant. “It makes it worse because he lives here,” he said, “right next to me.”