In the 1870s Mr. Ephrussi and his married lover, Louise Cahen d’Anvers, started collecting Japanese ivory and lacquer. In their intellectual circles, a British journalist reported at the time, Japonisme had become “a sort of religion.” Mr. Ephrussi eventually switched obsessions to French furniture, and in 1899 he gave the netsuke collection as a wedding present to his cousin Viktor von Ephrussi of Vienna, who married Baroness Emmy Schey von Koromla.PhotoThey are Mr. de Waal’s great-grandparents. He has visited their 1870s Ringstrasse palace, now a casino chain’s offices. Behind its facade’s turrets and caryatids, the rooms are still filled with the original marble paneling and gilding. In the baroness’s dressing room, Mr. de Waal learned, she arranged the netsuke in a black lacquer case lined with green velvet.Her four children would play with the carvings on the pale yellow carpet and organize them by color and size. From a child’s viewpoint, Mr. de Waal writes, “there are so many that you can never really count them, never know that you have seen them all.”The family fled the country when the Nazis seized the palace, turning it into an ideological education and indoctrination office. The baroness committed suicide a few months later, and her survivors scattered to England, Mexico and the United States. In late 1945 Mr. de Waal’s grandmother Elisabeth, who lived in Tunbridge Wells, England, visited Vienna. American soldiers, who were using the palace as a “property control subsection” office, told her that the family maid Anna still lived there.Anna’s last name was not recorded. But Mr. de Waal does know that while the Nazis were spending weeks cataloging and boxing up the Ephrussis’s porcelain, silver and old masters, Anna pocketed a few netsuke a day and stashed them under her mattress. When Elisabeth came back, Anna announced, “I have something to return to you.” So the 264 netsuke traveled to England.This fall Mr. de Waal’s book will be published in Austria, and he said he hopes it will lead to the identification of Anna. “She’s someone’s great-aunt or great-great-aunt,” he said. “There’s going to be some trace.”He first saw the netsuke as a teenager while visiting Tokyo, where his great-uncle Ignace worked for a Swiss bank. Ignace kept the netsuke in a glass case at his Modernist house and let dealers and scholars study them. Mr. de Waal, who inherited them a few years ago, describes his London home as “the collection’s latest resting place.”PhotoThe rows of netsuke have influenced his ceramic work; he often groups his pots by color and size on museum and gallery shelves, like minimalist repeating brushstrokes. Viewers who know about his inheritance, he said, have told him: “Diasporic objects! You’re keeping your objects together, aren’t you?”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyHEY, KIDS! AUCTION TIME!After five decades of acquiring political, television and sports memorabilia, Neil Robert Sakow is starting to sell the collection that he kept open to the public as Neil’s American Dream Museum in West Hartford, Conn. On Saturday, Lloyd Ralston Gallery in Shelton, Conn., will auction a few hundred of Mr. Sakow’s objects, specifically mid-20th-century Howdy Doody artifacts.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.With estimates mostly up to $100 each, the Ralston lots show that freckled puppet’s image molded or printed on lampshades, sandbox toys, towels, vinyl chairs, key chains, food packages and life preservers. “It’s the Howdy Doody lifestyle, every insane little product he endorsed,” Glenn Ralston, the auctioneer, said.Mr. Sakow, 65, said in a recent phone interview that he may open a downsized version of the museum in a few months. If that happens, he said, he will entertain tourists with his latest collection: he has memorized dozens of 1950s and ’60s advertising jingles. During the interview he gave a demonstration, rattling off songs for Colgate, White Owl cigars and Texaco (“We work from Maine to Mexico”).ENGLISH CERAMICS SALEEnglish ceramics makers in Staffordshire and Liverpool started catering to Americans even before the Revolution was over. They emblazoned slogans like “E Pluribus Unum” and images of George Washington and United States warships on cream-color jugs, bowls, plates and teapots.For five decades these products fascinated S. Robert Teitelman, a lawyer in New Jersey who died in 2008. He helped research and finance a book, “Success to America: Creamware for the American Market, Featuring the S. Robert Teitelman Collection at Winterthur” (Antique Collectors’ Club), which was released in April, and donated 60 pieces to Winterthur Museum in Delaware, where they are on view through Oct. 4. Northeast Auctions in Portsmouth, N.H., has been selling the rest of the collection and will offer the last batch on Aug. 22.About 50 Teitelman lots at Northeast are painted or printed with eagles, ships, politicians and gung-ho inscriptions like “peace, plenty and independence.” The Winterthur book will serve buyers as a kind of auction catalog supplement, showing how designs and glazes recur in the collection, now scattered.