Mr. McMillian's case, which was given national attention last fall on the CBS News program "60 Minutes," played out in Monroeville, Ala., best known as the home of the Harper Lee, whose "To Kill a Mockingbird," told a painful story of race and justice in the small-town Jim Crow South.To many of his defenders, Mr. McMillian's conviction for the killing seemed like an updated version of the book, in which a black man was accused of raping a white woman.There were no immediate suspects after Ronda Morrison was murdered on the morning of Nov. 1, 1986, in a dry cleaning store. Eight months later the police, arrested Ralph Myers, a 30-year-old with a long criminal record, in connection with another killing in nearby Escambia County. After a week of interrogation by the police, Mr. Myers accused Mr. McMillian, a pulpwood worker, as Ms. Morrison's killer.Mr. McMillian was arrested, and in an extraordinary move, was immediately sent to Alabama's Death Row, in Holman State Prison, Atmore, which is usually reserved for convicted murderers awaiting execution. Judge Key, for two decades the local circuit court judge, moved the trial from Monroe County, which is 40 percent black, to Baldwin County, which is only 13 percent black.Mr. McMillian was convicted after a one-and-a-half-day trial on the testimony of three witnesses. Testimony at TrialMr. Myers testified that Mr. McMillian asked him for a ride to the cleaning store. There, Mr. Myers said, he witnessed the murder. Another criminal suspect testified that he saw Mr. McMillian's "low rider" truck near the cleaner's, and a third man implicated Mr. McMillian.Mr. McMillian's lawyer called a dozen witnesses, who all testified he was at home the day of the murder taking part in a fish fry. But despite that testimony and the lack of physical evidence, he was found guilty.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyJudge Key, citing the "vicious and brutal killing of a young lady in the first full flower of adulthood" changed the life sentence to death, as allowed under Alabama law.Mr. McMillian, who had two jobs and no criminal record other than a misdemeanor charge stemming a barroom fight, did not have a history of violence, but he was well known in town for something else. Mr. McMillian, who is married with three children from his current marriage and has nine children altogether, was dating a white woman named Karen Kelly. And one of his sons had married a white woman. Roots of SuspicionBoth Mr. McMillian and his lawyer at the original trial, J. L. Chestnut, contended that Mr. McMillian's relationships along had made him a suspect.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters."The only reason I'm here is because I had been messing around with a white lady and my son married a white lady," he said last week in a prison interview.Whatever the reason, inquiries by Mr. Stevenson and by Alabama Bureau of Investigation agents have since discredited every element of the prosecutions case. All three prosecution witnesses have recanted their testimony.Mr. Myers has said that law officers prodded him into accusing Mr. McMillian. What's more, Mr. Stevenson's investigation turned up Mr. Myers's first response to the inquiries by the police about Mr. McMillian, in which he said he had had no knowledge of Mr. McMillian's involvement in the crime. Mr. Stevenson also turned up statements from the time of the trial in which four doctors at a forensic hospital said Mr. Myers told them he was being pressured by law officers to lie about Mr. McMillian.None of that material was turned over to the defense at the time, as required. Finally, the lawyer found that Mr. McMillian's truck was not turned into the low rider identified by his accusers until well after the murder.After turning down four appeals, the Alabama Court of Criminal Appeals threw out Mr. McMillian's conviction last week 5 to 0, leading to today's hearing. Prosecutor Joins DefenseThe current Monroe County District Attorney, Tommy Chapman, who did not prosecute the original case, joined the defense in seeking to have the charges dismissed. But he contended there was no deliberate effort to frame Mr. McMillian.Advertisement Continue reading the main story"It just mushroomed into a horrible mistake," he said in an interview last week. "I don't want to call it that. A horrible incident."He contended that Mr. McMillian's release proved the the system worked. Neither he nor Circuit Court Judge Pamela W. Baschab offered any apology or comment on the case at the 10-minute hearing this morning.But Mr. Stevenson said the case, coming at a time that the Supreme Court is increasingly cutting off avenues for Federal appeals, was a reminder how flawed the justice system could be. Since the case was resolved in the state courts, Mr. McMillian's case was not affected by recent decisions limiting appellants' access to the Federal courts.Mr. Stevenson, who handles death row cases for the Alabama Capital Representation Resource Center in Montomgery, said only the death sentence had allowed Mr.McMillian to receive adequate representation. And this case was unusual because the state's case proved not flimsy, but nonexistent, he said. Innocence Is Clear"The fortunate thing about Mr. McMillian's case is his innocence was demonstrable," he said. "It's clear he had nothing to do with this crime. There are other folks in prison who don't have the money or the resources or the good fortune to have folks come in and help them."He said he would examine possible legal action on Mr. McMillian's behalf.Mr. McMillian, who appeared in court this morning in a dark three-piece suit instead of the prison whites he has worn for six years, listened impassively as the charges were thrown out, then smiled and hugged his lawyers, Mr. Stevenson and Bernard Harcourt, before being greeted by throngs of family members and well wishers who overflowed the courtroom and waited in the halls. Outside they unfurled a makeshift banner, using his nickname, that read, "Welcome Home Johnnie D. God Never Fails."Mr. McMillian said he had always expected this day to come, but when asked if the decision today restored his faith in the judicial system he said: "No. Not at all."Mr. Stevenson added: "We told the court when we were here a year ago that truth crushed to earth shall rise again. It doesn't necessarily mean we believe in the judicial system."