There is some debate about whether the pumpkin, like some of its squash cousins, originated in North America. Some culinary historians say it was consumed in the Old World before the 16th century. Whatever the case, it is true that in many European countries, particularly France, pumpkin has been popular among home cooks for centuries. It is customarily steamed or baked and served with butter, salt and pepper; in soup, or as a puree. Some French- style recipes for couscous, the Moroccan meat or fowl stew, call for adding chunks of pumpkin.The firm, orange-yellow flesh of pumpkin can be used in virtually every recipe that calls for other types of squash. It is particularly tasty in vegetable casseroles. Keep in mind, however, that it takes considerably longer to cook than zucchini or summer squash.In Italy, ravioli and tortellini sometimes are filled with a seasoned pumpkin puree. Below is a variation on that idea: colorful and earthy pumpkin gnocchi or dumplings. These thick and chewy pastalike strands, tossed in butter and dusted with Parmesan cheese, make a fine accompaniment to autumn meals such as fowl, fish, veal or pork. Because pumpkin has such mild flavor these dumplings can blend easily with all sorts of pasta sauces.The recipe for pumpkin dumplings offered here is made from scratch, based on puree of fresh pumpkin. The puree can be prepared several ways. Some recipes call for boiling or steaming chunks of peeled pumpkin flesh before churning it in a blender or food processor. After experimenting with various methods I have found that the following yields the best results.Cut the pumpkin in half and scrape out all the seeds and stringy pulp. Cut each half into four or five wedges. Lay the wedges on a baking sheet and cook until the flesh is soft throughout, turning once. Remove the flesh from the thick rind (see recipe) and puree the flesh well. This technique makes a puree that is much less watery than the other methods. Baking also seems to bring out the sweetness of pumpkin (see recipe). A pumpkin weighing between 3 and 3 1/2 pounds will yield roughly three cups of puree.There are certain things to look for when buying pumpkins for cooking. Some stores and vegetable stands advertise what they call sugar pumpkins, which are small (between 2 and 4 pounds) and usually have dark orange rinds and dark flesh.''Sugar pumpkins are a special strain developed for eating and have a higher sugar content than others,'' said Edward Marrotte, consumer horticulturist at the University of Connecticut department of plant science in Storrs, Conn. ''Some of the larger field pumpkins have been developed for the jack-o'-lantern trade. They are big, round and have good durability, but they can also have all the flavor of cardboard.''Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAnother problem with large pumpkins is that the flesh is stringier and does not make as smooth a pureee as the sugar pumpkins. If you can't find sugar pumpkins in the market, buy the smallest ones available, no larger than four pounds. And if carving a ghoulish face is about as ambitious as you care to get with a fresh pumpkin, acceptable results can be obtained using canned pumpkin puree. Just be sure to buy brands that have nothing but pumpkin in the ingredient listing. Do not buy what is called pumpkin pie filling, which is loaded with sugar.Aside from the recipes below for sole with julienne of pumpkin and the festive dumplings, there is a technique for making an invigorating ginger-pumpkin ice cream. There is also a cream of pumpkin soup redolent of leeks and accented with nutmeg, and a pumpkin flan, or cr eme caramel. The basic pumpkin puree described here, which is the foundation for many recipes, also could be served alone as a vegetable. It is a particularly appropriate accompaniment to wild game or turkey. All the puree needs is some salt and white pepper, maybe some nutmeg or mace and perhaps cream blended in at the last minute for a smoother texture.Sole With Julienne Of Pumpkin 1pound gray sole (about 3 fillets) 2teaspoons lemon juice 1/2cup water 1/4cup white wineSalt and white pepper to taste 5tablespoons sweet butter 1 1/2cups loosely packed julienne ofpumpkin flesh (strips about 2inches long).1.*Place the sole fillets in a pan just large enough to hold them. Add the lemon juice, water, white wine, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, reduce to simmer and cook for 4 to 5 minutes. Carefully remove sole from the pan and place on a dish in a warm oven. Reserve cooking liquid.2.*Meanwhile, melt 2 tablespoons of the butter in a skillet and saute the julienne strips of pumpkin over medium heat, stirring occasionally, for 3 to 5 minutes, or until they are soft. Remove pumpkin and keep warm.3.*Add any juice that has accumulated in the dish holding the sole to the cooking liquid and reduce the liquid over high heat by half. Pour the reduced liquid into an electric blender. Add about 1/2 cup of the pumpkin strips and 3 tablespoons of cold butter. Blend well.4.*Put fillets on warm plates, garnish with sauce and arrange remaining pumpkin strips on top.Yield: Serves 2. Pumpkin Flan 1/4cup sugar for caramelizing 2tablespoons water 1cup pumpkin puree 1cup milk 1/2cup cream 4eggs 5tablespoons sugar 1/4teaspoon vanilla extract.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1.*Preheat oven to 350 degrees.2.*In a small saucepan, combine the 1/4 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water to make the caramel. Cook over medium heat, stirring initially to combine the sugar and water, then let it cook undisturbed. Cook mixture until it turns golden brown. Watch carefully to prevent burning. Remove from heat immediately.3.*When caramel is ready, pour it into a baking dish, approximately 1-quart capacity, tilting it to coat evenly.4.*In a mixing bowl, combine the pumpkin puree, milk, cream, eggs, sugar and vanilla extract. Stir well.5.*Pour mixture into the baking dish. Place in the oven inside a deep roasting pan filled with boiling water. Cook for 45 minutes. Let cool at room temperature. Chill before serving. To unmold, run a knife around the rim of the flan, place a serving dish over it and flip it.Yield: Serves 6 to 8. Pumpkin Puree 13- to 3 1/2-pound pumpkin (sugarpumpkin if possible).1.*Preheat oven to 350 degrees.2.*Remove the pumpkin stem with a large knife and cut the pumpkin in half lengthwise. Scrape out all the seeds and stringy pulp with a large spoon. Cut each half into 4 to 6 wedges and lay the wedges on a baking sheet.3.*Cook the pumpkin for approximately 1 hour, flipping the wedges once. The pumpkin flesh should be soft throughout. Remove from oven and let cool at room temperature.4.*When the wedges are cool enough to handle, remove the flesh from the rind either by using a paring knife or a spoon, whichever you find easier.Advertisement Continue reading the main story5.*Cut the pumpkin flesh into approximately 2-inch chunks and place them in the bowl of a food processor or a blender. Puree until the mixture is extremely smooth.Yield: About 3 cups. Pumpkin Soup 13- to 3 1/2-pound pumpkin,halved, scraped and seeded 2tablespoons sweet butter 1large white potato, peeled andcut into 1/2-inch cubes 2leeks, cleaned and trimmed,leaving about 1/2 inch of thegreen, chopped 3cups chicken stock 3cups waterSalt and white pepper to taste Ycup creamFreshly grated nutmeg to taste.1.*Cut the pumpkin halves into 4 to 6 wedges each and remove the rind. Chop pumpkin flesh into chunks about 3/4 inch thick.2.*In a deep soup pot, melt the butter over medium-low heat and cook the potatoes, leeks and pumpkin for about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.3.*Add chicken stock and water to the pot, cover, bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 1 hour or until pumpkin chunks are soft.4.*Add the soup to the bowl of an electric blender or food mill, a little at a time, and puree well. When all the soup is pureed, return it to the soup pot over medium heat. Salt and pepper to taste. Add cream and stir. Add grated nutmeg to taste, stir and serve. (For a dramatic note, the soup can be served in a well-cleaned pumpkin that has been warmed in the oven.)Yield: Serves 4 to 6. Ginger-Pumpkin Ice Cream 2cups milk 1cup heavy cream Zcup sugar 1/4cup water 5egg yolks 1 1/4cup pumpkin puree (see instructions) 1/4teaspoon powdered ginger 1/8teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1.*In a small pot, scald the milk; in another pot, scald the cream.2.*In a saucepan, combine sugar and water and bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring at first until sugar dissolves. Let the mixture cook undisturbed until it caramelizes, 7 to 10 minutes.3.*When the sugar has caramelized, remove pan from the heat and add the cream at once, stirring constantly. Return pan to medium heat and stir constantly until all sugar is dissolved. Add milk and bring just to the boiling point.4.*In a mixing bowl, combine the egg yolks with the pumpkin puree and spices. Blend well with a wooden spoon.5.*Add the cream mixture to the pumpkin mixture, a little at a time, stirring constantly. Take care not to let the egg curdle. When all is incorporated, place the mixture in a heavy saucepan over medium heat and cook, stirring constanlty, until it becomes thick and coats the back of a spoon, about 5 minutes.6.*Remove from the heat, pour mixture into a large bowl and let cool at room temperature. Prepare ice cream in a manual or electric ice- cream machine according to the manufacturer's instructions.Yield: About 1 quart.Pumpkin Dumplings 1egg 1cup pumpkin puree (see instructions) 1 3/4cups all-purpose flour 1/2teaspoon nutmeg.1.*Mix the egg and pumpkin puree in a bowl. With a wooden spoon beat in the flour, a little at a time, until the dough is smooth and elastic. Add nutmeg and beat several times to incorporate.2.*Bring a large, deep pot of salted water to a boil. Take a wooden cutting board or any flat platter and place several tablespoons of the dough on top. Use a large chef's knife to spread the mixture over the board so that it is about 1/8 inch thick. Hold the board over the pot of water and, using the knife, slice off strips about 1/4 inch thick and about 3 inches long. (The strips will look rough at this point, but don't be discouraged: the dumplings will take shape as they hit the water.) Dip the knife in the boiling water from time to time to make the cutting easier. When the dumplings rise to the surface, let them cook another minute before removing with a slotted spoon and dropping in a bowl of ice water.3.*When all the dumplings are cooked, drain in a colander. Before serving, saute them quickly in butter and season with salt, pepper and, if desired, Parmesan cheese. Yield: Serves 4.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyNOTE: Various other pasta sauces are appropriate with these dumplings.