PhotoRepresentative Aaron Schock of Illinois, a once-rising star in Republican politics whose taste for first-class travel and quirky interior design led to questions about his judgment and adherence to spending rules, said on Tuesday that he would resign his House seat at the end of the month.“I do this with a heavy heart,” Mr. Schock, 33, said in a statement. “Serving the people of the 18th District is the highest and greatest honor I have had in my life. I thank them for their faith in electing me and letting me represent their interests in Washington.”Mr. Schock had faced ethics questions ever since The Washington Post published an article last month about his opulent office, which prompted an investigation into whether he had improperly accepted pro bono interior design services.Mr. Schock personally paid back $40,000 for the office renovations, which included blood-red walls, a crystal chandelier and a plume of pheasant feathers.PhotoBut his Capitol décor, inspired by “Downton Abbey,” PBS’s popular period drama, also highlighted the lawmaker’s lavish lifestyle, which was well documented on his Instagram feed (surfing in Hawaii, dancing the tango in Buenos Aires), but not always as well chronicled on his financial disclosure forms.Over a series of weeks, news trickled out about his questionable financial practices. They included spending tens of thousands of dollars from taxpayer-funded accounts on previous office renovations, using taxpayer and campaign funds on private jets and concerts, and failing to report extravagant gifts on his annual financial disclosure forms, as required by House ethics rules.Mr. Schock, first elected to the Peoria school board at 19, seemed to relish the sudden celebrity that came with his assent to political power, pushing the boundaries of congressional standards by indulging in glossy shoots for magazines and posting shirtless pictures of himself online.Indeed, his quick rise and fall — elected as a fresh-faced 27-year-old in 2008, with a chiseled torso that landed him on the cover of Men’s Health and that perpetually seemed to go viral — seems almost ripped from a “Downton Abbey” story line. Carson, the show’s dour butler, surely could have warned Mr. Schock with a loud harrumph about the dangers of hubris.In the end, it was the testing of limits that cost Mr. Schock his seat in the House.In his statement, Mr. Schock added, “The constant questions over the last six weeks have proven a great distraction that has made it too difficult for me to serve the people of the 18th District with the high standards that they deserve and which I have set for myself.”“I have always sought to do what’s best for my constituents, and I thank them for the opportunity to serve,” he concluded.Mr. Schock’s resignation was first reported by Politico and came as the publication raised questions to his office about tens of thousands of dollars in mileage reimbursements he had claimed for his personal vehicle.As his personal and professional troubles escalated, Mr. Schock shifted from trying to make light of the scandal — “Haters gonna hate,” he told ABC News — to retaining lawyers and a public relations firm.“This is a sad day for the people of Illinois and the 18th District,” Gov. Bruce Rauner of Illinois, a Republican, said in a statement Tuesday.Mr. Schock — who had flown on Air Force One with President Obama and appeared with Mitt Romney on the 2012 presidential campaign trail — did not alert House Republican leaders to his decision to resign. But in a statement, Speaker John A. Boehner wished Mr. Schock well.“With this decision, Representative Schock has put the best interests of his constituents and the House first,” Mr. Boehner said. “I appreciate Aaron’s years of service, and I wish him well in the future.”Some colleagues of Mr. Schock said he had seemed destined for bigger things, not a scrambled, midday resignation.“He was somebody you just kind of looked to and said, ‘He’s going to be in leadership, he’s going to do this, one of those little Energizer Bunnies,’ ” said Representative Ted Yoho, Republican of Florida.Even Mr. Schock’s announcement that he was giving up his House seat, Mr. Yoho added, was a sign that Congress was losing a future leader. “If you’re willing to take yourself out of the game for some reason, I think that’s a sign of leadership,” he said.