Coco comes into the story when, at 14, she starts dating Jessica's half brother, Cesar, a thug-in-training, who nonetheless shows sparks of sweetness and regret. Coco is compact, upbeat and tough in her own way -- she sticks razor blades in her ponytail and coats her face with Vaseline to prepare herself for street fights. But as it turns out, she also has heart -- as LeBlanc writes of her at one point, she had ''survived extreme hardship without becoming hard'' -- and her essential likability is what makes this book less depressing than it otherwise could have been. Coco limps into her 20's with five children -- two by Cesar, who is by then serving a nine-year prison sentence, one each by three other men -- and shuttling between bleak housing projects in the Bronx and in Troy, N.Y. Yet she is devoted to her children (one of whom is born severely premature, with attendant health problems) and cares for them decently under circumstances that ought to give pause to anyone who thinks ''I Don't Know How She Does It'' is the last word on the stresses of motherhood. ''Just taking the bus was risky,'' LeBlanc writes at one point, ''because Nautica was prone to tantrums and Coco's hands were full with Pearl and her portable oxygen tank. Sometimes Mercedes would fall asleep so deeply that she couldn't be politely roused.'' It seems close to amazing when Coco defies the local conventional wisdom about not entrusting your children to strangers and gets it together to send the two older girls to an upstate camp for underprivileged kids. They turn out to love it -- the earnest young counselors, the goofy sing-alongs, the Learning Center with its shelves of books and child-size tables -- though, carefully, they try not to bruise their mother's feelings with their enthusiasm for a way of life so different from the one she's been able to make for them.LeBlanc is economical in her general observations -- the book is overwhelmingly descriptive, not analytical -- but those she ventures feel earned and fresh. She's particularly sharp on the culture of prison wives and prison visits: the preoccupation with dressing your children just so for an audience with Daddy at the correctional facility, the awkwardness of long visits where there's nothing to do but talk, the kids who think their dads are teasing them when they won't take off their manacles or emerge from behind the glass, the men who legally marry one of their ''stand-up girls'' so they can have ''trailers'' -- conjugal visits, named after the RV's on the prison grounds where they take place.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.She's good, too, at pinning down certain elusive cultural attitudes. ''Since there were few real options for mobility,'' LeBlanc writes, ''people in Coco's world measured improvement in microscopic increments of better-than-whatever-was-worse. These tangible gradations mattered more than the clichéd language of success that floated blandly out of everyone's mouth, like fugitive sentiments from a Hallmark card. . . . Thick and fed was better than thin and hungry. Family fights indoors -- even if everyone could hear them -- were better than taking private business to the street. Heroin was bad, but crack was worse. A girl who had four kids by two boys was better than a girl who had four by three. A boy who dealt drugs and helped his mom and kids was better than a boy who was greedy and spent the income on himself; the same went for girls and their welfare checks. Mothers who went clubbing and didn't yell at their kids the next tired day were better than mothers who did.''Certain questions go unasked and unanswered in a book like this. Why does somebody like Coco keep having children, against all evidence that another child will not win her what she wants -- a stable partner, a decent house for her kids, some kind of security? LeBlanc doesn't step far enough back from her subjects to pose a question like that quite so baldly. She sees her subjects' faults, but she takes their explanations pretty much straight. So she tells us how babies, like the tattoos of boyfriends' names that Jessica and Coco and their friends are forever getting, are reckless pledges of love and loyalty in a culture that doesn't embrace the conventional ones -- marriage, for instance. She describes the way newborns, blameless and unblaming, can seem like a new start -- can for a short while actually do what they are supposed to do, which is rope men in, tether wispy families together. But then, in so many cases in this book, they don't. The men drift away or go to prison. The babies turn into toddlers, who are admired for a while when they are ''bad''- when they act like pint-sized adults in ways that amuse the grown-ups -- but develop into kids with outsize problems, still looking for love and attention but now taking up too much space.LeBlanc has almost nothing to say about the larger world, its laws or politics or demographic shifts. None of the women in her book in any way illustrate the marked decline in teenage pregnancies over the last decade. Welfare reform -- the massive social transformation that has removed three million people from government rolls, and that journalists like Katharine Boo have reported on, brilliantly, for several years -- appears only as a brief mention: ''In the meantime, national changes in welfare policy had finally caught up with her, and Coco either had to return to school or go to work.'' LeBlanc does evoke the obstacles even a drug-free mother as energetic as Coco faces in holding a job. At one point, she gets one she likes and is good at -- serving meals at an old-age home, where she manages to memorize each resident's name by the second day. But when Pearl, the baby born prematurely, starts suffering terrible bouts of vomiting, Coco quits to take care of her. Once she goes back to school, but quits after coming home unexpectedly one afternoon to find her boyfriend, who is supposed to be watching the kids, bagging crack in the kitchen.In truth, you wouldn't want every book about poverty to be like LeBlanc's. As good as it is at foiling simple-minded or overly optimistic social reform schemes, there's a kind of Dreiserian fatalism about it. Its very dedication to portraying the multiplicity of hurdles, the bewildering entanglement of personal failure and structural inequality that marks lives like Coco's, allows a kind of exhaustion to creep in, not so much in the reader as in the would-be policy maker. Some books have to be fueled by a kind of willed optimism, even if that means turning your eyes away from some of the details.Still, this is a painstaking feat of reporting and of empathy, and in a way its tight focus and scant context seem true to the insularity of the culture LeBlanc brings to light here. One evening, after Jessica has gotten out of prison and her daughter Serena is turning 16, Jessica splurges on a rented limousine to ferry the girl and her friends wherever they want in the vast city. But as LeBlanc describes the scene, they tool around aimlessly, sheepishly asking the limo driver where he thinks they should go, and end up, finally, just a few blocks from home. ''They wanted to leave the familiar world behind,'' Leblanc writes, ''but no one knew the direction out.''