What steps should the Fed take to strengthen inflation expectations?I think our policy moves to date have been thoughtful and reasonable. We’ve increased our funds rate objective by 100 basis points. Maybe it’s time to stop and see whether inflation expectations are going to move in line with our 2 percent objective. And if the judgment was that we’re still likely to be underrunning our 2 percent objective, maybe we would stop briefly and assess for more information, maybe wait until mid-2018.Janet Yellen has said that until this year, the weakness of inflation has not been surprising. You’ve described a longer-term problem.If we’d said four or five years ago, “What’s going to be the hardest thing — getting unemployment down to our objective or getting inflation up to our objective?” I think a lot of people would have said that inflation was going to be easier.But my point is really more about the future dilemmas that we’re going to be facing. At some point, something is going to happen and we’re going to need to address a downturn or a weakness in the economy. I worry that as we get down to the zero lower bound and we have to trot out other tools, we’re going to be relying on the public and markets to believe we’re going to follow through and get inflation up to 2 percent. If we don’t live up to it this time, I think it’s even harder to get that message across and our tools would not be as effective. I look at the Bank of Japan, and they have struggled for decades with this type of credibility issue.You’ve also suggested that concerns about financial stability are not a good reason to raise interest rates. Why not?I do take seriously that if we have overly accommodative policy — even in an attempt to get inflation up to our objective — then we’re somehow providing the means for the financial sector to lever up a bit, particularly if we don’t have the right prudential standards in place. It just seems to me that it would be much better if we used our other tools, supervision, that would allow our monetary policy tools to address our inflation and employment goals.Are those other tools strong enough?There are few really good examples of macroprudential policies that central banks have brought out over time. I think in spite of that, what the regulators do in talking to the institutions is really very helpful, and those are the tools we need to pursue. We have to have a culture of reasonable regulatory approaches that are balanced so that businesses and consumers can go out and meet their needs. It’s not uncomplicated, but that’s what goes with the territory.