Other reader comments■ I hear a lot in these comments that the plight of men is because we have paid too much attention to women. I don’t think that’s it. If you read the article, you see single men reluctant to suffer the humiliation of working retail or fast food and able to make that choice because they do not have to provide for a family. Single mothers don’t get that choice. You will do almost anything to keep your kids fed. You take the humiliating retail job at $8.25 an hour, and you hustle because you are terrified of losing it. The employment differences between working-class men and women are because women work in the growing-but-horrible low-wage service industries, not because women stole all of the machinist jobs from men. — Clem, via Facebook■ Another factor to consider as well: men’s educational attainment has stagnated in recent decades, growing much more slowly than that of women. At a time when the pay gap between college graduates and everyone else has reached a record level, that stagnation is one reason for men’s struggles.■ In 1995 our family business, after nearly 100 years in apparel/retail, closed its last store. At our peak in 1971, we operated 9 factories, employed 400 workers and produced today’s equivalent of $35 million annually. Our retail operations ceased, too. At age 49, with a son at the University of PA and daughter still in high school, I had to reinvent myself. For almost 30 years, I worked in the factories and retail stores. I immediately took any jobs I could find. Selling cars, changing oil, shredding paper, driving at an auto-auction and dusting shelves. Anything. At night I would attend graduate school. For 19 months, I worked all day and then went to class and the library all night. I worked weekends, and when not working I was in the library. In the meantime I lost my home, marriage, but not hope. I received two master’s degrees. I qualified for a Civil Service job in Information Technology through the Governor’s Office of Administration management program. Now, almost 19 years later, I’m retired and comfortable. The price I paid for the loss of my career is immeasurable. I managed to make it, but I truly understand why many can’t. Building a life from scratch at age 49 is next to impossible. I would come home exhausted at 11 p.m. and then be up again at 5 a.m. to start over. I couldn’t do that today at age 67. And truthfully I don’t know how I did it at 49. — ay, via Facebook■ America has been underfunding infrastructure by around 1% of G.D.P. for decades. Most infrastructure jobs pay well and are in male-dominated fields. We would have to increase infrastructure spending by around 2% of G.D.P. for over a decade to get our infrastructure in good shape. So there are millions of good-paying male-oriented jobs in America. We just don’t have the political will to fund them. — Robert Salzberg, via Facebook■ There is so much about this report that is troubling: the costs to these employed individuals, both real and psychological; the impact on our economy of increasingly more unemployment benefits and no health care; and the prospects for our children in an economy that provides two career choices: low-wage, part-time service industry jobs, or opportunities in finance, law, medicine and the like, for the children of the elite who can afford to send their children to colleges costing over $50K per year. But does the elite care (and by “elite”, I am including members of Congress)? Do they feel any moral obligation to support an economy which benefits anyone besides themselves? As so many have pointed out recently, it appears we’re in new Gilded Age. — OakParkers, via Facebook■ What many people are missing here is that entry-level jobs, as distasteful as they may seem, lead to better jobs. Our daughter took two jobs after completing college that were well below what one might expect for a college grad. Both led to rapid promotions as her capabilities and good work ethic were discovered. She currently has a terrific job as a real estate development professional. A big part of this problem is simply getting back in the game, any game. — Steve Struck, via Facebook■ In the economy of life, isn’t the whole idea to get the most return for the least investment? So, the ultimate goal should be working as little as possible for the greatest reward, no? To put it another way, who is better off: an unemployed man living off disability checks and maybe family support, but who is readily meeting all his needs and maybe a few of his wants; or a wage slave with a big salary and 401K but with bigger appetites and obligations because he is obsessed more with status than survival, and is always rushing just to keep from falling further behind (i.e., someone who is living the American Dream)? — The Curmudgeon, via Facebook