Almost a year after the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage, gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender Americans, and those working to advance their rights, spent Sunday grappling with the implications — at gay pride celebrations, in their homes, at candlelight vigils. Particularly awful was that the massacre had transformed what was once seen as a haven for gay people — a gay bar — into a death chamber.PhotoIn Los Angeles, the fear took on particular urgency when the police reported that they had arrested a man with weapons and explosives who was headed to the city’s gay pride parade.In Florence, Ala., where Mr. Newbern lives, he said the attacks had compounded “all that anxiety about being L.G.B.T. in the Deep South.” In Washington, David Thompson, 49, woke up to three lengthy text messages from his 70-year-old mother. She did not want him to attend Sunday’s gay pride festival there.“It is a horror, a total horror,” said Mary L. Bonauto, the civil rights lawyer who successfully argued last year’s Supreme Court case on the right to same-sex marriage. “I am profoundly sad.”Slide ShowShe was thinking ahead to Saturday, when she will be the grand marshal of the gay pride parade in Portland, Me., her home city.“On the one hand, how can you not help but feel nervous?” Ms. Bonauto said. But on the other hand, she expressed worry about Islamophobia. “I was thinking, ‘Should I wear a T-shirt that says, ‘Don’t judge the many by the few’ — something to show some solidarity?” she said.The gay rights movement, of course, is no stranger to the fear of violence. That includes the days when gay people worried about being branded “faggots” and beaten, whether in small towns or in gay centers like New York; the 1973 arson attack on a gay bar in New Orleans that left 32 people dead; the 1998 murder of Matthew Shepard. All are cultural touchstones for the community.VideoIn 2015, the F.B.I. reported that 18.6 percent of the 5,462 so-called single-bias hate crimes the previous year were attributable to sexual orientation; 47 percent were attributable to race. But Jay Brown, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, said that hate crimes against gay people were underreported, and that finding accurate statistics was “extremely challenging.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMovement leaders, speaking anecdotally, said they sensed an increase in violence against gay people this year — perhaps, some said, because of the divisive presidential campaign, or because of high-profile policy fights like the one over the Obama administration’s recent directive requiring schools to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms of their choice.“I sincerely believe that this is following a trend, that we often see an uptick during presidential elections — particularly when the vitriol increases about our community,” said Lorri L. Jean, who runs the Los Angeles L.G.B.T. Center, a nonprofit advocacy, health and social services organization.PhotoOfficials at the Human Rights Campaign said they had been struck by a recent spate of highly publicized assaults against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people. In Atlanta, a gay couple was doused with boiling water, causing severe burns, in March. The same month, in Iowa, a transgender teenager was murdered.In Los Angeles, also in March, a gay man was murdered by his father; amid debate over what role the victim’s sexual orientation played, Ms. Jean said, his sisters asked the Los Angeles L.G.B.T. Center for help “because they feel that their father was really upset that this kid was gay, and that this was nothing but an anti-gay hate crime.”On Sunday, gay rights activists around the country were trying to figure out how to move forward. In Jasper, Fla., about two and a half hours north of Orlando, Art Smith, a onetime personal chef to Oprah Winfrey, said he hoped to host a benefit for the victims’ families.VideoMr. Smith and his husband recently adopted four children and moved to Florida. As a parent, he now worries for his children and hurts for others: “Probably there are children that are orphaned as a result of last night,” he said.As someone who regards himself as tolerant, he said, he wonders, “How must Muslim Americans feel?” But it is as a gay man that he feels the most acute pain. “This is particularly horrible for us in the gay community because this was a gay club,” he said.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Newbern is planning a memorial in Florence on Monday night. The gay pride dance this weekend was to be the first in a series of events, including a panel discussion and an interfaith service at the local Unitarian church. Now, the service will be a candlelight vigil to honor the dead.“I don’t want to rush to judgment about what the motivation was here — if it was extremism, if it was specifically L.G.B.T. hate,” he said. “It doesn’t change the fact that those 50 souls, and now probably more, are gone.”“I woke up, I turned on the television,” he said, “and I literally said out loud to myself, ‘We have got to do something.’”