Just the opposite: The most-replayed moment of the entire debate may have come when Mr. Sanders took Mrs. Clinton’s side on the investigation of the private email server she had used while secretary of state. “The American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails!” he said, prompting cheers from the Democratic audience and a hearty laugh and handshake from his opponent.If the Republican candidates went to their debates to deliver smackdowns, the Democrats showed up for a singalong. The heat from the stage was mostly directed outward, especially at the opposition party, and most especially at Donald J. Trump, whom Mr. O’Malley called “that carnival barker.” Mr. Trump is an unavoidable presence even at the other party’s debate, which he decided to crash via second-screen by reviewing it live on Twitter. (“Wow, I am giving a speech on OAN,” he wrote, referencing the One America News Network. “Much more exciting than debate!”)One can’t blame CNN if the candidates didn’t deliver the thrills Mr. Trump or others sought; beyond a point, whatever the format, candidates will have the kind of debate they want to have. There weren’t many innovations in CNN’s presentation — the anchor Don Lemon presented questions from Facebook, a device we’ve seen before — and the event ran a solid two hours, despite having fewer candidates than the Republican main-stage debates.In the end, the five Democrats mostly used the debate less to argue with one another than to present the versions of themselves — and their party — that they wanted voters to see. The tone was maybe best summed up toward the end, when Mr. Cooper asked the candidates which enemies they were proudest of making, and they gave a range of favorite progressive targets: Wall Street, the coal lobby, the Republicans in general. Mr. Webb did give a more colorful answer: the enemy soldier who wounded him with a grenade in battle — “but he’s not around right now.”If you were looking for combat on stage, sorry; what happened in Vegas was mostly staid in Vegas.