To the Editor:Re “Rice Concedes Error on Libya; G.O.P. Digs In” (front page, Nov. 28):The totally unfounded attacks on Susan E. Rice must be placed in context. They are part of the continuing saga of the G.O.P.’s policy of delegitimizing any Democratic president. The debate over Ms. Rice is eerily reminiscent of the 1993 nomination of Lani Guinier by President Bill Clinton to be assistant attorney general for civil rights. In that case, Mr. Clinton unwisely caved in and withdrew her nomination.This set the stage for unending Republican attempts to undermine all of his policies. He would have done better to throw down the gauntlet and fight. Even if he lost, he would have laid down a marker of his own. The G.O.P. went on to impeach the president in his second term — so much for accommodating the far right.Now another capable black woman is serving as a surrogate target for the real goal, delegitimizing President Obama. The goal has shifted from making Mr. Obama a one-term president to balking all of his policy initiatives. Nothing has really changed, and the sooner Mr. Obama realizes this, the better. My message to the president: Stand and fight, and we will have your back.ORIN HOLLANDERJamison, Pa., Nov. 29, 2012To the Editor:If it turns out that Susan E. Rice, ambassador to the United Nations, was deceived concerning events in Benghazi, Libya, much as one of her predecessors, Adlai Stevenson, was over the Bay of Pigs, she would have done well to study how Mr. Stevenson handled being lied to by President John F. Kennedy and the C.I.A. — and dealt with it more astutely.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFor years, Ms. Rice has followed the style of her more abrasive and diplomatically disinterested predecessors, Jeane Kirkpatrick and John R. Bolton. Now, having irritated many on more than one continent, she finds herself with few supporters as Congress seeks to unravel the Benghazi debacle. If Ms. Rice did know that she had been fed lies, shame on her for spinning them.But for the country, the critical issue now is whether Ms. Rice will succeed Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, a hard act to follow under any circumstances. Is it really prudent, in this political climate of partisan distrust and international turmoil, to move Ms. Rice to State when the United States needs ...well, another Hillary Clinton?