Puerto Rico is on the brink of a humanitarian crisis, economies across the Caribbean are on life support, and dozens of people are dead.The region was still recovering from Hurricane Irma when it was pummeled last week by Hurricane Maria. Days after the storm passed, Puerto Rico is still without power and has spotty access to water. Other islands suffered similarly, raising fears of a potentially permanent exodus.The region needs immediate and long-term help. A few of the groups collecting donations to provide such relief are listed below.(The Times has also published articles about helping the victims of Huricane Harvey, Hurricane Irma and the earthquakes in Mexico. For those who are trying to figure out where to give and are feeling overwhelmed, here are some tips to guide your thinking.)Local CharitiesThese are just a few local organizations that have vowed to help in recovery efforts. As discussed in detail below, it’s important to do your research before giving to any charity.Unidos, by the Hispanic FederationA coalition of elected officials in New York and Puerto Rico joined the Hispanic Federation, a Latino nonprofit, to launch this relief fund for Puerto Ricans affected by Maria. Proceeds will go to community and civic organizations in Puerto Rico, the group said.Dominica Hurricane Relief FundThe government of Dominica is collecting donations through JustGiving, a crowdfunding website. The money will go toward temporary roofing, blankets and non-perishable foods.Fund for the Virgin IslandsThe Community Foundation of the Virgin Islands, a nonprofit, is collecting donations through this fund, which will be used “both to support short-term relief efforts and to enhance the well-being of future generations.”GoFundMeThe crowdfunding website maintains a list of campaigns, many of them local, collecting donations for victims of the storm. Donors can give to a campaign or directly to GoFundMe, which will then distribute the money to the campaigns.Unidos por Puerto RicoThis initiative, from Beatriz Rosselló, the first lady of Puerto Rico, enlists private sector help in providing aid to those affected by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Donations are accepted through a variety of means, including PayPal.National and Global CharitiesEach group below has earned the top rating, four stars, from Charity Navigator, which grades charities based on transparency and financial health.All Hands VolunteersAll Hands works with local volunteers and groups to respond to natural disasters. With Hurricanes Harvey and Maria, it is focusing its efforts on the U.S. Virgin Islands. “Our help is needed in the islands, so that’s where we’ll be,” said Erik Dyson, the group’s chief executive.