Larry gently rebuffs Steve’s well-meaning efforts to give comfort, assuring him that he is just fine, thank you. And yet under Steve’s persistent prodding the emotionally restrained Larry admits he’s found himself dreaming of his last encounter with Dane. The blank look in his eyes, and the distracted hesitancy Mr. Birney brings to Larry’s clipped responses to Steve’s pressing inquiries, attest to the serious disorientation taking place beneath Larry’s buttoned-down surface.Larry’s quiet grappling with a pain he finds himself unable to share is contrasted with the reactions of the students who were closest to Dane, all of whom were in his English lit class. Mr. Read, a student in the Juilliard playwriting program, captures the disparate voices of these kids with a rare exactitude.Dane’s nerdy, slightly older sister, Rachel (Alexandra Socha), who wears pajama bottoms and baggy sweatshirts to class, views the school’s well-organized efforts to help the students through this trauma with snarky contempt. Chattering away with a studied show of indifference to Dane’s girlfriend, Chelsea (Jessica Rothenberg), she makes sarcastic sport of the circus of sorrow that has overtaken the school.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The assembly in his honor she treats with particular ridicule: “It, like, combined all of the things that Dane really loved,” she enthuses facetiously, “like candles ... people that he didn’t know talking about him ... more candles.”The more gentle-spirited Chelsea doesn’t know how to react to Rachel’s smirking hostility. Everything she says seems to cause offense (even anodyne comments like “I love your mom”), and Chelsea finds herself having to hide her own feelings of grief lest she be accused of hypocrisy. Chelsea’s emotional confusion is further complicated by her own guilt over her feelings for a friend of Dane’s, Kyle (Jake O’Connor).Under Evan Cabnet’s sensitive direction, Ms. Rothenberg, Mr. O’Connor and particularly Ms. Socha give impressive performances. The amplified awkwardness of high schoolers dealing with situations that confound even adults is rendered with clarity and honesty. No one strikes a falsely sentimental note, and Mr. Caras, seen only in the first scene and in another depicting one of Larry’s anguished dreams, is equally fine.As Dane and Rachel’s mother, Andrea, Kristie Dale Sanders appears in just a single scene, but it’s the dramatic heart of the play. She too depicts her character’s grief with no traces of excessive histrionics. Andrea has complicated motives in seeking a meeting with the teacher who had shown extra interest in Dane. It would be unfair to say more, but as played with quietly charged intensity by Ms. Sanders and Mr. Birney, this painful encounter is the play’s most moving scene.Larry, a confirmed bookworm who has made a careful pact with life that involves the minimal expenditure of emotion, suddenly finds himself having to face the unexpected consequences of his lonely but safe path. In trying to insulate himself from the pain and mess of everyday human life, Larry discovers that he has brought himself into intimate contact with something far more terrible, a fate that might even be called tragic.THE DREAM OF THE BURNING BOYBy David West Read; directed by Evan Cabnet; sets by Lee Savage; costumes by Jessica Wegener Shay; lighting by Ben Stanton; sound by Jill B C DuBoff; production stage manager, Charles M. Turner III; production manager, Michael Wade; general manager, Rachel E. Ayers; associate producers, Jill Rafson and Josh Fiedler; associate artistic director, Scott Ellis. Presented by the Roundabout Theater Company, Todd Haimes, artistic director; Harold Wolpert, managing director; Julia C. Levy, executive director. At the Black Box Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan; (212) 719-1300; roundaboutunderground.org. Through May 8. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyWITH: Reed Birney (Larry), Josh Caras (Dane), Matt Dellapina (Steve), Jake O’Connor (Kyle), Jessica Rothenberg (Chelsea), Kristie Dale Sanders (Andrea) and Alexandra Socha (Rachel).