More subjective written fund assessments by Morningstar’s analysts will also continue, but the new system replaces Morningstar’s list of picks and pans, which began in 1999.Under the new scale, the firm assigns three medal ratings — gold, silver and bronze — along with neutral or negative ratings, to just over 400 mutual funds. It started with 350 and hopes to reach 1,500 by the end of this year.Its analysts score each fund on five qualitative and numeric factors: the so-called “pillars” of people, process, parent, performance and price.The “people” factor reflects considerations like portfolio manager experience, while “process” takes into account things like the fund’s strategic performance in the 2008 market plunge. The “parent” factor would look at, among other things, the fund sponsors’ stewardship in putting investors’ interests ahead of those of executives.The importance of these factors varies from fund to fund.“We don’t equally weight them,” said Karen Dolan, Morningstar’s director of fund analysis. “We don’t have a formula,” she said of the new rankings.For example, Ms. Dolan said expense ratios would be a major element in appraising index funds, while “people” would weight heavily for a fund like the highly concentrated Fairholme Fund, whose fortunes are closely tied to the stock-picking skills of its manager, Bruce R. Berkowitz.Morningstar’s analyst ratings committee, headed by Russel Kinnel, reviews the rankings to make sure the pillar criteria are properly applied. Funds earning the three medals, Morningstar said, are regarded as having “sustainable advantages” that position them favorably for at least five years of market swings.PhotoMr. Phillips cautioned that the system was “not designed to be a market call on an asset class or a prediction of short-term performance,” and that a high ranking for a particular fund did not mean that it was necessarily suitable for every investor.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyStandard & Poor’s, whose mutual-fund rankings are lesser known, started an approach in late 2009 that evaluates the individual stocks and bonds that make up fund portfolios.And while the firm’s compliance department will not permit assertions that the system is “forward looking,” Todd Rosenbluth, its lead developer, allowed that it has an “inherently”’ predictive aspect in that S.& P.’s stock recommendations are based on expected gains over a 12-month horizon. For example, when the firm’s analysts favor, say, high-quality, dividend-paying stocks, this assessment carries over to its mutual fund rankings.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.“Understanding the fundamentals and risks of a fund’s holdings is as important as, if not more important than, the relative past performance,” S.& P. stated in its announcement.A year earlier, in 2008, S.& P. adopted this new approach for exchange-traded funds. S.& P. found that it proved fruitful, as top-ranked E.T.F.’s generally outperformed benchmarks, and low-rated ones underperformed.Using portfolio data supplied by Lipper, S.& P. rankings cover 19,000 funds, including all share classes, that have been in operation for at least six months. Money market, convertible securities and long-short funds are excluded. Rankings are updated weekly.Unlike issuers of corporate, municipal and other bonds, mutual funds do not pay to be rated but may, depending on the circumstances, need to license their use of ratings by the two services in advertising or when communicating directly with shareholders.Although the two rating services will often agree, they differ in many cases.For example, Morningstar rates Eagle Growth and Income as a five-star fund while S.& P. gives it three stars. On the other hand, S.& P. thinks more highly than Morningstar of the Manning & Napier Dividend Focus fund, awarding it five stars to Morningstar’s four.As for Lipper, it uses its vast database to produce separate lists of what it calls Lipper Leaders among funds, based on total return, consistency of return, capital preservation, expenses or tax efficiency. It also makes annual awards for top performance.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe effort to help fund investors peer into the future has aroused some skepticism, though Ms. Dolan said she had been expecting more pushback, particularly on the choice of pillars, when explaining the medal scale to an industry group last month in New York.One skeptic is John C. Bogle, founder of the Vanguard Group. While declaring that he has long made use of Morningstar’s products, he contended that there was no better predictor of a fund’s performance over the long term than price alone — that is, its expenses. Other things being equal, the lower the expenses charged by fund companies, the better the returns to investors, he says.Mr. Bogle also wondered whether the raters would be able to keep up to date, given the rapid rate at which many managers turn over their portfolios.“I think they’ll find it’s very difficult” to be forward-looking in sizing up funds, Mr. Bogle said of the process. “It has to have inherent limitations.”And even if the predictions worked out, he sees a hazard for investors. Top funds, he said, might “get all the money, and they’d be too big to manage properly.”