The Algerian military operation to end the gas-field siege was done without consulting foreign governments whose citizens worked at the facility. It has been marked by a fog of conflicting reports, compounded by the remoteness of the facility, near a town called In Amenas that is hundreds of miles across the desert from the Algerian capital, Algiers, and close to the Libyan border.In London, Prime Minister David Cameron told Parliament that the number of Britons at risk was estimated late Thursday at “less than 30.” That number has now been “quite significantly reduced,” he said, adding that he could not give details because the crisis was continuing. British officials have said they know at least one Briton was killed when the militants seized the facility.Offering a broad account of Algeria’s handling of the operation, he told lawmakers: “We were not informed of this in advance. I was told by the Algerian prime minister while it was taking place. He said that the terrorists had tried to flee, that they judged there to be an immediate threat to the lives of the hostages and had felt obliged to respond.”In Paris, Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius confirmed for the first time that a French citizen had been killed, although it was not clear exactly when. The victim, whom Mr. Fabius identified as Yann Desjeux, had contacted relatives as recently as noon Thursday, according to the French newspaper Sud Ouest, which also said it had spoken with Mr. Desjeux. Three other French citizens were involved in the hostage situation but are now safe, Mr. Fabius said.Frustration with Algeria’s information vacuum seemed particularly vexing to Japan, where an energy company that had assigned 17 employees to the gas-field facility said Friday that seven were confirmed safe but that 10 were unaccounted for. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had personally appealed to his Algerian counterpart by phone early Friday to stop the military action, the Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported, but was told that military action was “the best response and we are continuing our operation.”Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta met with Mr. Cameron in London as Pentagon officials were continuing to try to learn details about the raid.“We are working around the clock to ensure the safe return of our citizens, and we will continue to be in close consultation with the Algerian government,” Mr. Panetta said in a speech in London before meeting with Mr. Cameron.