When Georgia Power, a subsidiary of Southern Company, first received approval to build the reactors in 2009, it estimated they would cost $14 billion in total and come online in 2016 and 2017. But construction difficulties and the March bankruptcy of the project’s lead contractor, Westinghouse, pushed back that timetable. The company now says the reactors will not produce power until 2021 and 2022 at the earliest, and the final price tag could reach $23 billion or more.Unlike many states, Georgia still tightly regulates its electricity sector. The Georgia Public Service Commission approves plans for new power plants and then adjusts electricity rates to ensure utilities receive a “reasonable” return on their investment.In August, Georgia Power asked the commission to approve a revised timetable and bigger budget to finish the Vogtle reactors. The utility owns 45 percent of the project and estimated that its share of capital costs would need to rise to nearly $9 billion from $5.7 billion, not including financing. Regulators had to decide who should bear the burden — the utility’s shareholders or ratepayers. Georgia Power warned that it would not continue the project if it was forced to absorb a large share of the costs.The regulators largely sided with Georgia Power, deeming its budget request “reasonable.” The utility will have to accept a small reduction in future profits and will face penalties for further delays. But it will likely be able to recoup the bulk of its increased costs from ratepayers. (About $1.7 billion will be covered by Toshiba, the parent company of Westinghouse, as part of the latter’s bankruptcy agreement.)Georgia Power is also expecting Congress to extend a federal tax credit for nuclear power that is scheduled to expire by 2020. That extension was stripped from the final Republican tax bill this year, but lawmakers may take it up in separate legislation next year. If they do not, Georgia’s commission said it “may reconsider the decision to move forward.”