After the assault, Ms. Baker remained tethered to Mr. Simmons professionally, she said. She returned to his apartment for a meeting; Mr. Simmons liked to conduct business while working out in his penthouse. But as soon as he stopped exercising, she said, he pulled out his penis and moved toward her. She fled.Image The cover of “January February,” a dance track Ms. Baker released under the name Tina B in the mid-80s.Amid strife with her label, she tried to extricate herself from her contract with Mr. Simmons, she said, but he ignored her. Her music — two years’ worth of songwriting and recording — languished. “I went into a deep depression,” she said, and her recording career foundered.Mr. Simmons said he “did everything he could to professionally promote her career” while Ms. Baker was signed to a label, and then stopped representing her, according to his lawyer.The events took a heavy toll on her romantic relationships. “I didn’t have sex with a man for almost nine years,” said Ms. Baker, now a lawyer. “I went into a cocoon.”‘I Was Cornered’Drew Dixon left Stanford University in 1992 to join the hip-hop revolution.After about two years on the fringes of the business, Ms. Dixon — whose mother, Sharon Pratt, was mayor of Washington, D.C., from 1991 until 1995 — had a professional breakthrough: Russell Simmons, whom she had met through friends, was looking for a new A&R executive at Def Jam to scout talent and coordinate hit records.She said he was a decadent figure, complete with a Rolls-Royce — the “living, breathing personification of hip-hop and glamour mixed up” — and his sexual advances started right away and became relentless. At a restaurant, Mr. Simmons pushed Ms. Dixon into a broom closet, she said, and tried to kiss her. At work, he would close the door to her office and expose himself, leading her to give a copy of her key to a male co-worker.“I was like: ‘If I ever buzz you, don’t pick up, don’t call me back — just open my door. That means Russell is in here and he whipped his’” penis out, she said.Through his lawyer, Mr. Simmons acknowledged that he engaged in “inappropriate conduct” with Ms. Dixon while she worked at Def Jam.Fending him off “was a full-time job,” Ms. Dixon said. “It was exhausting. It was like making a record while swimming in rough seas.”At the same time, Ms. Dixon knew Mr. Simmons valued her expertise. She had an ear for emerging talent, even bringing a rising Notorious B.I.G. to the office.“I didn’t want to cut off my one conduit to having any hope of a career,” she said. “I thought if I could survive long enough to have a hit — a real bona fide hit with my name on it — I would move categories,” from sexual object to respected colleague.In 1995, Ms. Dixon thought she had found her lifeline. Her first major project — a soundtrack for the music documentary “The Show,” featuring Tupac and A Tribe Called Quest — went platinum. She and Mr. Simmons were listed as executive producers.Image Ms. Dixon when she was an executive at Arista.One night, as she left the Bowery Bar near Mr. Simmons’s apartment to get cab money from an A.T.M., she ran into him. “You have the No. 1 record in the country; I’ll order you a car,” she recalled him saying.Waiting for the ride, she let her guard down and entered his apartment. “I remember realizing I was cornered,” said Ms. Dixon, who said she rejected Mr. Simmons’s sexual advances that night directly — “many ways to say no” — as well as explaining that she had just had a gynecological procedure and could not have sex. He told her he didn’t care, she said, “and I just blacked out.”“The last thing I remember was him pinning me down to kiss me on the bed,” she said. The next thing she recalled was being in Mr. Simmons’s hot tub, both of them naked and Mr. Simmons gleeful. (Ms. Dixon said she had not been drinking and did not think she had been drugged; rather, she said, she had disassociated from the experience.)Denise Gayle, a friend who was then staying with Ms. Dixon, recalled her coming home in a daze. “She pretty much told me right away that he had sexually assaulted her, that she had told him no, cried and that he didn’t seem to be interested in stopping,” Ms. Gayle said. “She mentally deteriorated instantly.” Three others confirmed that Ms. Dixon told them about the assault and harassment around that time.Mr. Simmons “emphatically states that he did not have sex with her,” his lawyer said.Soon after, Ms. Dixon said she composed her resignation letter to Def Jam by hand, humiliated and in a panic, crossing out her mistakes rather than starting again. “I was going to give up,” she said.Ms. Dixon considered escaping to graduate school. But the success of “The Show” soundtrack had made her taste a commodity, and she started at Arista Records, as an A&R executive under Clive Davis, in 1996. She enjoyed more success, helping to orchestrate smash singles like Whitney Houston’s “My Love Is Your Love,” Aretha Franklin’s “A Rose Is Still a Rose,” and Santana’s “Maria Maria.”But even at Arista, the long shadow of Def Jam remained, partly over a dispute about what she said were unpaid business expenses. Ms. Dixon hired a lawyer and threatened to sue Mr. Simmons for sexual harassment, as well as outstanding bills from the label. In 1997, the parties settled out of court. Mr. Rose, Mr. Simmons’s lawyer, confirmed the settlement.