But the main road cuts across the strip of asphalt that connects the museum to its repair shop. Any mechanic who darted across for a wrench would technically be invading a foreign country containing a high-security prison.So the pleasant, chatty Scottish police officers patrolling in their checkerboard hats and Heckler & Koch submachine guns would probably have to shoot him. And the Dutch high school students who sometimes skip the old-airplane tour and sneak into the woods for a smoke might get the same treatment.Rather than gun down their Dutch hosts or spend even more money to build a new repair shop, the Scottish court erected a clever two-way fence. When the two gates letting the workers cross are open, all Scottish traffic is blocked and the ground is legally the Netherlands. When the others open, it is Scottish soil again.''I got caught inside, between the gates once,'' said Richard Bailey, a spokesman for the Scottish courts. ''And I did think, 'Where am I?' '' But mostly I thought, 'When the hell's the gate going to open?' ''In the Dutch countryside near the base, all has been quiet. The director of the museum, Lt. Col. Dick Piest, and the press spokesman for the nearby town of Zeist, Louis Smit, said they hardly noticed the camp's presence. Some Zeist residents had fretted about terrorist attacks, Mr. Smit said, but ''when they saw that security was very good when the two Libyans arrived last year, that disappeared.''Zeist's hotel rooms were booked solid when the trial opened on May 3, but the news media have all but disappeared, as have most of the victims' families.Zeist and nearby Soest pick up Scotland's garbage and stand ready to send their fire brigades in if necessary. Otherwise, the trial has little impact.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyScottish officers ''don't wear their uniforms when they come here, so we don't know which they are,'' said Mr. Smit. ''Maybe a few people who sell flowers or food to the base are making some more income, but it's hard to calculate.''An exception, of course, was the night that officers from the first contingent had their farewell dinner at an Italian restaurant. They marched down in full Highland dress, accompanied by two bagpipers.''The Dutch thought we were totally and absolutely mad,'' Mr. Beaton said. Now the camp tries to make sure that each police team includes a piper; they go along to good-neighbor events like wreath-layings at Dutch monuments or bicycle races to raise money for Dutch charities.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Certain other Scottish traditions have taken the low road. For officers designated to carry weapons (like British bobbies, they normally do not), ''no alcohol may pass their lips from the moment they leave Edinburgh to the moment they get back,'' Mr. Beaton said.Since the officers, all volunteers, serve 12-week stints, the prohibition can be a wee strain. It is claimed, although some have their doubts, that they held last year's Robbie Burns' supper pouring nothing but Iron Brew, a Scottish soft drink.The point of this expensive exercise is to put on trial just two men, Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, who are accused of being Libyan intelligence agents and of blowing up Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland on Dec. 21, 1988.Seven years of sanctions and the intervention of Prince Bandar ibn Sultan of Saudi Arabia and Nelson Mandela finally persuaded Libya's leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to let the two ''voluntarily'' surrender to the Dutch, so that they could be tried in the Netherlands, but under Scottish law.Inside the fence, they might as well be in Scotland. The judges, the prison officers and the local police are Scots, and the defendants have the same rights to the presumption of innocence as Scottish citizens have, as well as to family visits, an exercise bicycle and a television with Arabic channels.An irritating aspect for journalists inside the fence is that everything is presumed secret until proven otherwise. Partly that is just Scottish legal habit; neither defense lawyers nor prosecutors speak to the press. Court spokesmen have been known to roll their eyes and say, ''This isn't the O. J. trial'' when asked simple questions like why scheduled witnesses are overdue.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBut partly it stems from fear that Libya will try to rescue the suspects or kill an important witness, who is said to be a turncoat Libyan intelligence agent now in an American witness protection program. The weaponry and the number of officers on hand are secret.At least two Americans, a Justice Department lawyer assisting the prosecution and an F.B.I. liaison officer, are on the base each day. But they also keep to themselves.The ingrained secrecy habit can become comical. On a stroll to the front gate to buy souvenir police T-shirts from an officer, two journalists decided that they could not tell a curious court spokesman their mission.On their return, a court spokesman offered to trade two cups of coffee for an accounting of where they had been. When told it was a secret, he looked hurt.''I tell you secrets,'' he pleaded, unconvincingly.Even this article was kept secret. An interview with Mr. Beaton was granted on the condition that it be printed only after the court recessed for summer on July 28.And it contains one: only as he reads these words is the court spokesman learning what the mysterious ''package'' that summoned the journalists to Gate 1 was.Unless the Gate 1 officer cracked or the closed-circuit televisions in the Dutch woods gave away the game.