We use cookies and similar technologies toas well as toTo learn more about cookies, including how to disable them, view our Cookie Policy . By clicking "I accept" or "X" on this banner or using our site, you consent to the use of cookies unless you have disabled them.Fly to Tehran. Upon arrival, visit the Iran Artist's Forum and adjacent art galleries, stopping for lunch in their vegetarian restaurant. Afterwards, drive by the ex-American Embassy and check in at a hotel to rest for your departure flight. Later, gather for a festival farewell dinner at the hotel.Travel to Persepolis, looted by Alexander the Great around 330 B.C. This archaeological site was lost under the Persian desert for hundreds of years. Modern excavation began in the 1930s, around the time Persia became the state of Iran. Originally named Parsa and known in the ancient world as the “wealthiest city under the sun,” it was called Persepolis, “the city of the Persians,” by the Greeks. Today, people flock here to marvel at its grandeur, and Iranians seeking to connect to their Persian roots often make pilgrimages here. Visit the remains of several government buildings, including the Gate of All Nations, the Palace of 100 Columns and the Palace of Darius. Proceed to the royal necropolis in Naqsh-e Rostam, just a few miles northwest of Persepolis, before returning to Shiraz.The first known existence of Shiraz traces to 2000 B.C., and it has played a major role in the area’s cultural history since. Genghis Khan spared it from destruction during his conquest of the area in the 13th century. During the Zand dynasty (1747-79 A.D.), Shiraz was the Iranian capital; many of its most architecturally interesting buildings were either built or restored during this time. Spend the day meandering its pretty streets, buildings and gardens. A few highlights will be the peaceful Eram Garden: The word “Eram” is taken from an Arabic word for Heaven. Explore the colorful bazaar of Haji and the 19th-century Nasir al Mulk Mosque, more commonly known as the Pink Mosque for its colorful tiles. A traditional Persian lunch will be served at Shater Abbas. Shiraz has long been synonymous with the arts and especially poetry: In the afternoon, visit the tomb of the noted poet Hafez, whose collected works are highly regarded as the pinnacle of Persian literature. You may also visit the vibrant Vakil Bazaar before ending the day in an old caravanserai, Saray-e Moshir.On the way to Shiraz, visit a cleverly made ancient ice house in Abarqu. After lunch, visit the tomb of Cyrus the Great at the Unesco World Heritage site of Pasargadae. This sixth century B.C. site was the capital of the Persian Empire until the Macedonians, led by Alexander the Great, conquered it in 330 B.C.Yazd is the center of Zoroastrian culture in Iran. Visit Dakhmeh, the “Tower of Silence,” a circular, raised structure used to expose the dead, much like the traditional Tibetan “sky burial.” Then visit the Zoroastrian fire temple. Still in use today, it holds a fire that has been kept alight continuously since 470 A.D. Explore the 15th-century Mirchakhmaq Square and the facade of the old bazaar of Yazd, followed by a visit to the 14th-century Jameh mosque. Yazd mosques are known for their high and lofty minarets, and the tallest one is on the Jameh mosque. Stroll through the spiral back alleys of the old quarters of the city, visiting the prison of Alexander and Lariha Traditional House. Lariha House was built in 1286 as a house for a fabric merchant. Have tea and Yazdi baklava in an 18th-century public bathhouse, recently converted into a traditional Persian restaurant. The 18th-century Dowlat Abad garden and its lofty wind tower, or badgir, is another wonder of Yazd. Wind towers, also referred to as wind trappers or ventilation towers, are an inseparable part of the architecture of central and southern Iran, and have provided natural air-conditioning in this hot climate for thousands of years. The wind tower in this garden stands almost 110 feet tall.Visit Chehel-Sotoun Palace and its large frescoes depicting court life, counterbalanced by miniature paintings of the 17th-century Safavid dynasty. Then visit the 1,000-year-old Jameh mosque. After lunch, drive to Yazd. En route, visit an early 10th century Friday Mosque with an ancient underground prayer hall, believed to be an ancient Mithra temple. Also see the remnants of Narenj Citadel, both in Na'in, a Hebrew settlement that dates from the sixth century B.C.Isfahan is filled with Islamic art and architecture. Tour the Vank Cathedral, also known as the Church of the Saintly Sisters, which belongs to the Armenian Christians who first came to this area in the early 17th century by the order of Shah Abbas the Great. Alongside the church is a large museum, which includes the first book ever to be printed in Iran. Later, visit the Royal Square, where Persian and Iranian royalty played and watched polo, and Iman Square, one of the largest plazas in the world. Continue to Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque (Ladies Mosque), built by Sheikh Abbas I for the use of his harem, making it one of the few female-only mosques. Spend some time at the bazaar before pausing for a moment for reflection and a cup of tea in a traditional teahouse followed by a look at the incredible art and culture of Persian carpets at a gallery.In the morning, drive to Isfahan, a Unesco World Heritage site and one of the most important cities in Iran’s history for its connections with the trade routes. Lying right in the center of the country, equidistant from the Persian Gulf and the Caspian Sea, it sits on both the east-west and north-south trade routes that transverse the country. In the afternoon, visit the 17th-century Sio Se Pol bridge (with 33 arches) and Khaju bridge (24 arches), then stroll around the enchanted gardens of the 17th-century Hasht Behesht Palace, the Eight Paradises Palace, one of the last of many great mansions that once graced this city.Take the cross-country route today via the Zagros Mountains, making a few stops en route to Khomein. Stop at Falak-ol-Aflak in Khorramabad, a castle dating 1,800 years to the Sassanid era, the last Iranian empire before the rise of Islam. Pass through the towns of Dorud and Aligudarz before arriving in Khomein. Visit the family residence of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the cleric who returned from exile and engineered the fall of the Shah of Iran and instituted the Islamic state. Drive to Arg-e-Googad, or the Googad Citadel, for a night in a 400-year-old fortress.Journey over the 7,000-foot-high Asadabad Pass, the main gateway into western Iran. You’ll visit the remains of the Anahita Temple from the Parthian period (247 B.C.–224 A.D.) in Kangavar before arriving along the ancient Persian trade route in Bisotun to view an ancient inscription — the largest inscription from the Achaemenid period, the first Persian Empire, ever found. Dating to the sixth century B.C., it depicts the Persian King Darius I, victorious in his battle against a Median ruler, and tells the story of his conquests. Next, visit Hamadan. Some believe the Assyrians first occupied this city in 1100 B.C., but Herodotus says it was the capital of the Medes, an early Iranian people, around 700 B.C. Either way, this lovely city at the base of Mount Alvand attracts many trekkers and other travelers each summer, intent on discovering its Persian secrets. Visit the ancient excavated site of Ecbatana, the first Median kingdom of Iran. You’ll also see three architecturally beautiful buildings: two churches and the lovely Gonbad-e Alavian, a 12th-century mausoleum whose dome indicates it may have been originally intended as a mosque. You’ll also explore what Judeo-Persians believe to be the tomb of Queen Esther and Mordechai, regarded as the most important pilgrimage site for Iranian Jews. The tour will continue into the crypt, which also contains Hebrew inscriptions and a copy of the Ten Commandments. Continue to Borujerd.After breakfast, the day will be filled with ancient sites and visits to the colorful bazaar. Kermanshah, considered one of the birthplaces of prehistoric culture, is also the birthplace of the author Doris Lessing.Tehran is a fascinating fusion of old and new; conservative elders uphold the traditions of the country’s past while the young and fashionable find ways to celebrate in a country that bans alcohol. The city itself may be crowded and a little dusty, but the grit gives it flavor and even color. In Tehran, you will visit several sites for insight into what you can expect in this ancient country, home at one time or another to many of the world’s religions. Explore the Golestan Palace complex, which dates from the Qajar rulers, followed by the labyrinthine Tehran bazaar and Jameh mosque. Then, visit the Jewelry Museum, which houses the Crown Jewels, most dating to the Safavid dynasty (1501-1736), often considered the beginning of Persian Islamic history. Fly to Kermanshah, in the Kurdish Northwest, in the eveningJourney with on-the-ground experts who will help untangle this nation’s complex timeline. Starting in Tehran, journey through beautiful landscapes, arid mountains and rural villages, learning about the traditions and cultures of a land whose influence has been felt for thousands of years. Though Iran often rejects Western ways and is frequently under fire for its positions on human rights, its nuclear program and Israel, its role as a birthplace of civilization cannot be denied. This journey with The New York Times, praised for its intensive and clear-eyed coverage of Iran going back decades, takes you behind the headlines.Persia. Iran. For 2,500 years, this powerful country has entranced, mystified and beguiled the world. Discover the ancient secrets and modern complexities of this influential land on a 13-day itinerary, visiting some of the world’s oldest archaeological sites and the family home of the religious leader who engineered Iran’s transition to an Islamic republic. Welcome to the once-forbidden land of Iran.Terms & ConditionsThese are the terms under which we offer Times Journeys Tours. By registering and paying your deposit for a Tour, you are entering into this Participant Agreement with us. Please read these terms carefully before making a deposit or payment for a Tour. These terms may be supplemented by additional terms and conditions specific to your Tour (“Supplemental Terms”). In the event of a conflict between this agreement and the supplemental terms, the Supplemental Terms will apply.Times Journeys Participant AgreementTimes Journeys, a part of The New York Times Company, acts only as the trip sponsor and is not responsible for the acts or omissions of other parties. The trip described on the Times Journeys website (the “Website”) or in your brochure (the “Tour”) is provided by an independent tour operator named on the Website or in your brochure (the “Operator”). Times Journeys and the Operator are collectively referred to as “we or “us”. The terms and conditions of this Participant Agreement apply to your Tour and the program for the Tour (the “Itinerary”).Pricing and Inclusions: Quoted Tour prices are per person, double occupancy except where indicated. Prices include programming, planning, handling and operational charges and are based on current rates of exchange, tariffs and taxes in effect at the time of publication. We reserve the right to increase Tour prices to cover increased costs, tariffs, taxes and V.A.T. received after prices are published and to reflect fluctuations in foreign exchange markets. We will not give a breakdown in the price of a Tour or its parts. Modification of Tour content size will not affect the published price.Exclusions: Quoted Tour prices exclude: trip insurance; airfares between points on the Tour; international airfare, including airfare and other transportation to and from the Tour (unless otherwise noted); costs associated with obtaining passports or entry visas; airport departure taxes (unless otherwise noted); excess baggage charges; gratuities to the Tour directors, drivers and guides; meals other than those specified in the Itinerary; sightseeing not included in the Itinerary; and personal expenses such as laundry, communication charges and optional activities (which are subject to availability).Reservations and Payments: The Tour deposit amount is listed on the Website or in your brochure. The deposit is required in order to confirm your booking. Upon receipt of the deposit, the Operator will send you confirmation of your booking. Your final payment date will be listed on the confirmation. If a Tour is already full, we will accept deposits on a standby basis. If space becomes available, you will have the choice of joining the Tour by paying in full or forfeiting the space in return for a refund of your deposit. Final payment is due ninety (90) days prior to departure unless otherwise indicated on the Website or in the brochure. If your reservation is made within ninety (90) days of departure, the entire cost of the trip must be paid at the time of the request in order to secure confirmation.Travel Insurance: We strongly recommend that you purchase trip cancellation and medical insurance. The Operator will provide the insurance applications along with your booking confirmation. Any questions about what travel insurance does or does not cover should be addressed directly to the travel insurance company. If you decline insurance coverage, you will personally assume full responsibility for any financial loss associated with your travel arrangements, and you could lose your travel investment and/or have to pay more money to correct the situation.Single Travelers: Tour prices are based on double occupancy. Single travelers will be expected to pay the single supplement fee.Cancellation by You: We must receive your cancellation notice in writing by email, fax or overnight courier, and your cancellation date will be the date on which we receive your notice.If we receive your cancellation notice ninety-one (91) days or more from the Tour departure date, we will refund fifty percent (50%) of the deposit amount, and all of the Tour price, to the extent that you have made that payment.If we receive your cancellation notice ninety (90) to sixty-one (61) days prior to the departure date, we will retain twenty percent (20%) of the Tour price based on double occupancy, excluding optional payments.If we receive your cancellation notice sixty (60) to thirty-one (31) days prior to the departure date, we will retain fifty percent (50%) of the Tour price based on double occupancy.If we receive your cancellation notice thirty (30) days or fewer prior to the departure date, we will retain one hundred percent (100%) of the Tour price.Any penalty imposed by an airline, including for airline service between points on the Tour (“Internal Air”) or travel to or from the Tour, is your responsibility.Your decision not to participate on the Tour due to State Department warnings, fear of travel, illness or any other reason will be deemed a cancellation. If a flight or other delay for any reason prevents you from joining the Tour on the Tour departure date and time, you will be considered a no-show, and we cannot provide a full or partial refund or credit toward a future Tour, but you may join the Tour late if you wish.Air Transportation during the Tour: Internal Air is not included in the price of the Tour. Estimated Internal Air costs will be identified separately on the Website or in your brochure. Internal Air costs and availability are subject to change at any time prior to final payment for your Tour and we reserve the right to increase Tour prices accordingly. We will not change your seat assignment request on commercial aircraft without your permission. However, airlines often change seat assignments to satisfy their loyalty members or because of equipment changes (aircraft type). We are not notified of these changes in advance, and often travelers are not made aware of these changes until they arrive at the airport. We cannot be responsible for seat assignment changes made by the airline. Frequent flier programs are private agreements between airlines and passengers, and we cannot be held responsible for mileage discrepancies involving airline loyalty reward programs.Passports and Visas: You are solely responsible for complying with passport and visa requirements. For U.S. travelers, international travel requires a passport valid six (6) months beyond your intended return travel date. In many cases, you will also need to have multiple consecutive blank visa pages within your passport (the number varies depending on the destination(s)). Many destinations also require that visas be obtained prior to travel. It is recommended that you check with the U.S. Department of State website for the latest passport and visa requirements.Cancellation or Substitution by Us: We will make commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Itinerary as it has been published; however, the final Itinerary may vary due to availability and factors beyond our control. We may in our sole discretion substitute services such as hotels or goods of similar quality for any service or good stated in the Itinerary. If a Times Journeys speaker (“Speaker”) cancels, the Operator will make every effort to find a replacement. You will not be refunded in whole or in part when the Operator is unable to find a replacement Speaker.We reserve the right to cancel any Tour because of inadequate enrollment that makes the trip economically infeasible to operate or because of our concerns with respect to the safety, health or welfare of our travelers or staff. If we cancel a Tour, our liability is limited to a full refund of your payments to us and we will not be liable for any other costs, damages or refunds of any kind for any loss, delay, inconvenience, disappointment or expense whatsoever in such circumstances. If a Tour in progress must be interrupted or canceled, our liability shall be strictly limited to refund of the recoverable cost of any unused portion of the Tour.Other Taxes and Fees: Some governments charge departure taxes and/or fees. These fees are the responsibility of each passenger traveling to the designated country and are not included in the Tour price unless stated.Baggage: We assume no liability for loss or damage to baggage in transit to and from a Tour or while on a Tour. We recommend purchasing a supplemental travel insurance package.Children: Unless otherwise indicated in the Tour description, all Tour passengers must be at least ten (10) years of age. However, some activities contained within an Itinerary may have a different age restriction than the overall minimum age requirement, in which case details will be provided at the time of booking. We reserve the right to marginally exceed the published maximum group size on family Tours to accommodate a family.Suppliers Acts or Omissions: The Operator acts only as an independent contractor to supply or arrange for the travel services named in your Itinerary or otherwise to procure services or goods from third parties such as airlines, hotels and other lodging providers, local hosts, guides, bus lines, car rental companies, driving services, restaurants and providers of entertainment (the “Suppliers”). The Operator and Times Journeys assume no responsibility for any personal injury, property damage or other loss, accident, delay, inconvenience or irregularity which may be occasioned by reason of any act or omission of any of the Suppliers.Conduct During the Tour: You are responsible for respecting the authority and following the directions of the Tour guide and the laws of the countries in your Itinerary during a Tour. We may exclude you from participating in all or any part of the Tour if, in our sole discretion, your condition or behavior renders you unfit for the Tour or unfit for continuation once the Tour has begun. Unfitness may include, without limitation, any behavior that, regardless of its cause, is inappropriate or offensive or interferes with the delivery of Tour services or may constitute a hazard or embarrassment. In such case, our liability shall be strictly limited to refund of the recoverable cost of any unused portion of the Tour. Should you decide for any reason not to participate in certain parts of the Tour or use certain goods included in the Tour, no refunds will be made for those unused parts of the Tour or goods. You agree to indemnify and hold us harmless from and against any costs, damages, losses or liabilities arising out of (a) the actions or omissions of any minors traveling with you and (b) if you checked the box indicating that you are signing on behalf of yourself and your traveling companions, your companions’ claims that you were not authorized to agree to this Participant Agreement on their behalf.Limitation of Liability and Damages: In no event will we be liable for any injury, loss, claim, damage or any special, punitive, exemplary, direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damages of any kind, whether based in contract, tort, strict liability or otherwise, that arise out of or are in any way connected with the Tour, even if advised of the possibility of such damages.Travel Advisories and Warnings: It is your responsibility to become informed about the most current travel advisories and warnings by referring to the U.S. State Department’s travel website at travel.state.gov or by phone at 888 407 4747.Force Majeure: We assume no responsibility for any personal injury, property damage or other loss, accident, delay, inconvenience or irregularity which may be occasioned by reason of any matter beyond our exclusive control including but not limited to a delay or cancellation that causes you to miss all or any portion of the Tour, acts of God, acts of government, war, terrorist acts, riots, disaster, weather extremes or strikes. We have no special knowledge regarding the financial condition of the Suppliers, unsafe conditions, health hazards, weather hazards or climate extremes at locations to which you may travel. You understand that health care standards, facilities and services abroad may be different or even inadequate for treating health conditions. For information concerning possible dangers at foreign destinations, we recommend contacting the Travel Warnings Section of the U.S. State Department at (202) 647-5225 or www.travel.state.gov, and click on “Travel Warnings.” For medical information, we recommend contacting the Centers for Disease Control at (877) FYI-TRIP or www.cdc.gov/travel.Assumption of Risks and Release: If you participate in activities during your Tour, certain risks and dangers may arise, including, but not limited to, the risk of accidents in remote places without access to medical facilities, transportation or means of rapid evacuation and assistance; the hazards of traveling in unsafe or politically unstable areas or under unsafe conditions; the dangers of civil disturbances, war, extortion, kidnapping and terrorist activities; dangers and risks inherent in activities in underdeveloped countries; and dangers of local law enforcement activity. You hereby expressly assume all of these risks and dangers, and you hereby expressly agree to forever release, discharge and hold us and our agents, employees, officers and directors, harmless against any and all liability, actions, causes of actions, suits, claims and demands of any and every kind and nature whatsoever which you now have or which may hereafter arise out of or in connection with your Tour or participation in any activities in which you participate.Arbitration and Waiver of Trial by Jury: You agree to present any claims against us within ninety (90) days after the Tour ends and to file any suit within one (1) year of the incident, and you acknowledge that this expressly limits the applicable statute of limitations to one (1) year. In lieu of litigation and jury trials, each of which is expressly waived, any dispute concerning, relating or referring to this Participation Agreement, the brochure, or any other literature concerning your trip or the Tour shall be resolved exclusively by binding arbitration in New York City, New York, according to the then existing commercial rules of the American Arbitration Association. Such proceeding will be governed by the substantive law of the State of New York. The arbitrator(s) and not any federal, state, or local court or agency shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, conscionability, or formation of this Participant Agreement, including but not limited to any claim that all or any part of this Participant Agreement is void or voidable.General: You hereby consent to our use of pictures or video of you in our marketing materials without compensation. Facsimile or scanned transmission of any signed document shall be deemed delivery of an original. If there are any conflicts between this Participant Agreement and the Itinerary, this Participant Agreement shall apply. We reserve the right to decline to do business with anyone on a nondiscriminatory basis.Active Elements, Medical Conditions and Special Assistance: Some of our Tours incorporate active elements such as hiking, climbing or canoeing; you are responsible for familiarizing yourself with the level of activity that will be involved in your Tour. You must disclose in your Participant Information Form (or at such later time when you become aware of such a condition) any existing physical or mental illness, disability, pregnancy or any other condition which may create a health hazard for yourself or others during the Tour or for which you may require medical attention or special accommodation during the Tour. We will make reasonable efforts to accommodate your needs, but you must notify us at the time of booking for a determination of what assistance we can reasonably provide. We regret that we cannot accommodate you if you have special needs for ordinary daily activities, such as walking and dining. In no instance will our Suppliers or we physically lift or assist you on to or off any vehicles. If we cannot accommodate your special needs, you must be accompanied by a companion who will be responsible for independently providing the needed assistance.We reserve the right to decline acceptance of anyone we consider unsuitable due to fitness level. We also reserve the right to remove you from the Tour, at your own expense, if your condition is such that it could create a hazard to you or others, or otherwise impact the enjoyment of other passengers.Supplemental Terms and ConditionsBinding Arbitration Clause (for Mountain Travel only): I agree that any dispute with Mountain Travel concerning, relating or referring to this contract, the brochure, or any other literature concerning my trip, or the trip itself shall be resolved exclusively by binding arbitration in San Francisco, California, according to the then existing commercial rules of the American Arbitration Association. Such proceeding will be governed by substantive California law without regard to the California Arbitration Act. The arbitrator(s) and not any federal, state, or local court or agency shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability, enforceability, conscionability, or formation of this contract, including but not limited to any claim that all or any part of this contract is void or voidable.A LARGE PRINT COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT IS AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST.