The two graceful spans that will take the place of the current deteriorating bridge will be supported by four angled towers, each shaped like a giant harp. The timetable calls for the first 96-foot-wide span, whose piles are rising just north of the current bridge, to open in December 2016. Two months later it is to accommodate eight lanes, four in each direction. Then the current bridge will be torn down and, by summer 2018, a parallel span — 87 feet wide — is scheduled to take its place just 40 feet south of the first span.Each span will then be reconfigured to accommodate four lanes of cars, with traffic on the northern span heading to Rockland and traffic on the other to Westchester. Each span will also have an express bus lane and emergency shoulders, and the northern span will have a special lane for cyclists and pedestrians.When the silvery Tappan Zee opened in 1955, it succeeded in turning sleepy Rockland County into one of the state’s fastest-growing regions, transforming farmland and bungalow colonies into a flourishing suburbia. The opening on Dec. 15 of that year marked the near completion of the 427-mile New York State Thruway from Buffalo to the Bronx, where it connected to the Major Deegan Expressway and Manhattan. In the bridge’s first two hours, The New York Times reported, 2,162 vehicles crossed it, with most drivers paying a 50-cent toll. Its name combined the name of a branch of the Delaware/Lenni Lenape Indians and the Dutch word for “sea.”PhotoBut because of the Korean War, materials were in short supply. The Tappan Zee was built on the cheap. Expected to last only 50 years, the bridge’s expiration date has passed, and its condition makes more than a few commuters anxious. Heated debate began in 1999 on whether hundreds of millions of dollars should be poured into structural repairs or whether a new bridge should be built. In 2011, a decision was reached in favor of a new bridge that would last at least a century and might alleviate the regular traffic jams on a bridge with frequent accidents and no shoulders. The new bridge is estimated to cost $3.9 billion.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe project presented major engineering challenges. A single span would have required too great a width to stretch for 3.1 miles, according to officials of New York State Thruway Authority, which owns the bridge, so two spans had to be built. Plans for a commuter rail line, a dream of mass-transit advocates, were shelved as too costly for now. Should the will ever crystallize, officials say a rail span could be squeezed between the two automobile spans.Construction is being handled by a consortium of companies experienced in building bridges that have banded together under the name Tappan Zee Constructors.To direct the project, the authority has hired Peter Sanderson, 65, the engineer who oversaw the speedy replacement of the Interstate 35 bridge in Minneapolis that collapsed in 2007, killing 13 people. Mr. Capobianco, the project manager, is his deputy. By the time it is finished, 400 engineers will have had a hand in the new bridge, with workers putting in 6 million hours of construction.Thruway officials say Tappan Zee Constructors will bear most of the risk for cost overruns, a result of legislation Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo signed in 2011.The builders are calling on the Left Coast Lifter, one of the world’s largest floating cranes, with a hoisting power of 1,750 metric tons (or as the Thruway authorities like to say, 12 Statues of Liberty). It left Oakland, Calif., just before Christmas, passed through the Panama Canal last week and will take a few weeks to travel up the East Coast.PhotoThe span of the new bridge will slope about half as steeply as the current bridge; the Tappan Zee’s incline is believed to contribute to fender-benders as trucks slow. The bridge will also have all-electronic toll collection, eliminating backups at tollbooths.Bottlenecks may not end entirely, Thruway officials concede. Two miles beyond the bridge in Rockland County, there is an uphill slope where the Thruway slims to three lanes from four, a constriction that could occasionally back traffic up to the bridge.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBecause the new bridge will use the current bridge’s landings on the Rockland and Westchester shores, no homes were seized by eminent domain, officials said, though some slivers of private shrub land were needed.The new bridge still has yet to be named. It may remain the Tappan Zee. The Thruway Authority’s website talks about a generic “New New York Bridge,” but officials admit that the name is up for grabs. The question will be mulled by a task force that is studying the bridge’s financing, looking at tolls — at $5, the Tappan Zee’s are less than half that of the George Washington Bridge — and other revenue sources. They could recommend selling the naming rights.“We’ve heard some background noise that there might be some interest in branding, but there have been no discussions regarding the name of the new bridge,” said Thomas J. Madison, the Thruway’s executive director.One caution for anyone wanting to buy the name: The current bridge is officially known as the Governor Malcolm Wilson Tappan Zee Bridge, after the 50th governor of New York, who served only one year. But few drivers invoke his name when giving directions or calling home to explain why they are late.