PhotoDonald J. Trump’s proposal to ban all Muslims from entering the United States has been panned as reactionary, discriminatory and immoral by Republicans and Democrats, drawing comparisons to persecution of Jews and stirring recollections of Japanese internment camps.While Muslims have not been the targets of such policies in the United States, the sentiment of keeping certain kinds of people out of the country is not unprecedented in American history.Mr. Trump acknowledged as much on Tuesday, when he pointed to former President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s so-called enemy alien control program. The World War II-era provisions allowed law enforcement agencies to arrest people of German, Italian or Japanese ancestry who were living in the United States. Mr. Trump said that the former president had remained so popular that roads had been named after him.Mr. Trump also made reference this week to a controversial 1954 policy introduced by President Dwight D. Eisenhower after a spike in immigration was deemed to have suppressed wages and created an influx of crime. Under the program, nicknamed “Operation Wetback,” the United States employed military buses and planes to swoop into border settlements and cities and remove undocumented immigrants who had crossed the Rio Grande from Mexico looking for work.“Everybody liked Ike,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Eisenhower in an interview on MSNBC.But tough immigration tactics date even farther back.In 1924, Congress passed the Johnson-Reed Act, a piece of legislation that imposed tight quotas on entry into the United States in hopes of preserving the country’s demographics. It brought literacy tests and new measures to keep Asians out of the country, while loosening restrictions on immigration from the British Isles and Western Europe. The law built upon a 1917 immigration change, born from World War I national security concerns, that imposed an “Asiatic Barred Zone” against people from much of South and Southeast Asia.“We sort of ebb and flow nationally from openness to a surge of anti-immigrant sentiment,” Omar Wasow, a political science professor at Princeton University, said. “We’re in the midst of one of those convulsions.”Chinese immigrants were the target of xenophobia in the 1800s. An influx of Chinese laborers came to the United States in the second half of the century to work in mines and factories, eventually stirring anti-Chinese sentiment. According to the State Department, “American objections to Chinese immigration took many forms, and generally stemmed from economic and cultural tensions, as well as ethnic discrimination.”After some debate about offending China, by 1882 Congress had passed the Chinese Exclusion Act, which banned for a decade the immigration of skilled and unskilled Chinese laborers. The law required Chinese people who entered or left the United States to carry identifications cards certifying their work status. Tighter restrictions were added until 1943 when China became a wartime ally and the law was repealed.Erika Lee, director of the Immigration History Research Center at the University of Minnesota, said that the Chinese Exclusion Act was remembered by scholars as one of the darkest periods in American history. However, unlike Mr. Trump’s proposal, it had some exceptions that allowed passage for Chinese students, teachers and tourists.“As egregious as that law was, Trump’s recent proposal to call for an all-out ban on Muslim immigration is even worse than the exclusion act,” Ms. Lee said. “I never thought I’d say this, but in comparison to this proposal, the exclusion act looks better.”