As for its action on Britain, Moody’s cited “the increased uncertainty regarding the pace of fiscal consolidation” because of weaker growth prospects over the next few years. It also noted that even though Britain is outside the euro area, the high risk of further shocks within the currency union poses danger given its trade and financial links with countries that use the euro.As a reminder of the source of Europe’s crisis, Moody’s action came on the same day that European officials cautioned that obstacles remained to a second bailout for Greece despite lawmakers’ support for harsh austerity measures demanded by foreign lenders.Euro zone finance ministers are expected to meet Wednesday night and give provisional approval to a 130 billion euro (about $170 billion) bailout, but technical, legal and political problems still plague a rescue that is unpopular in Greece and in its creditor nations.Officials cautioned that any agreement would be a conditional one, pointing out that the German Parliament, which must approve the deal, will not vote on it until Feb. 27.Not all of the conditions demanded of the Greeks have been satisfied, including a determination by the government of 325 million euros in additional savings. Another is a guarantee of support for the bailout from Greece’s political chiefs, including Antonis Samaras, leader of the conservative New Democracy party, which is expected to win elections that are expected soon.Mr. Samaras sowed doubt on Sunday in Parliament about his commitment to the agreement, despite calling on deputies to vote for it. Doing so, he said, would keep Greece from falling into the abyss and allow for “the possibility tomorrow to negotiate and change the policy that is being imposed upon us today.” Parliament voted early Monday in favor of the new package of austerity measures.PhotoAt their meeting Wednesday, the euro zone finance ministers will receive an analysis from the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund on the sustainability of Greek debt. The analysis is to include identifying the gap in financing, thought to be around 15 billion euros, above the 130 billion euro loan package. The gap exists because the worse-than-expected economic slump in Greece depressed government revenue more than had been predicted.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThat will probably prompt a debate about whether the European Central Bank should help relieve some of Greece’s debt burden by renouncing profits on Greek bonds that were bought at a discount. An alternative might be to lower the interest rate at which Greece will borrow from the euro zone bailout fund.In either case, Greece faces further contentious curbs on its sovereign decision-making powers. The Dutch and German governments will probably press for bailout money to be paid into a special account that would be used first to service debt. Only when those obligations were met would cash be available for general government spending.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.If the ministers can agree on those elements, they will embark on the next phase of the rescue, which involves large losses for private holders of Greek bonds. The planned swap offer for private investors needs to be introduced soon so that it can be completed before March 20, when Greece has to redeem 14.5 billion euros in bonds or go into default.Although they were asked in October to take a 50 percent loss, or haircut, private investors now face much steeper losses because of the deterioration of the Greek economy, and some analysts said it would be impossible to persuade enough of them to do so voluntarily.“It will be difficult to get 90 percent of the creditors to go for voluntary haircuts,” said Nicolas Véron, senior fellow at Bruegel, a research institute in Brussels. “There will probably be a credit event,” he said of the likelihood that credit-default swaps, a type of insurance against creditors reneging on their loans, will be initiated — a signal that Greece is technically in default.Such an outcome, while it would deal a huge blow to confidence in the euro zone, has been anticipated by the markets, Mr. Véron said, so the effect would not necessarily be catastrophic.Olli Rehn, the European Union commissioner for economic affairs, called on Greek politicians to come out more strongly to change the perception of a package of measures seen as so tough that it risks plunging the country into a downward economic spiral.“The Greek authorities and political forces should now take full ownership and make the case for the second program and fully implement it in order to return the country to stable economic growth and job creation,” he said.But in creditor nations there is little support and no disguising the mounting skepticism about Greece’s ability to carry out the changes it has promised.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyChancellor Angela Merkel of Germany described the Greek Parliament vote as “very important” but stressed the need to stick to tough austerity measures.Despite the remaining obstacles for Greece, prospects for a second bailout have advanced, Mr. Véron said.“It is a high-risk situation,” he said, but “each of these actors has to make the calculation whether they prefer this to proceed or the alternative — and the alternative is not pretty.”