“Let’s call her the candidate for the entitlement party,” Ms. Palin said.With strong backing from the Tea Party Express, Mr. Miller, who supports states’ rights and sharp reductions in federal spending, stunned Alaska and national Republicans when he defeated Ms. Murkowski in the Republican primary in August. But Ms. Murkowski soon surprised people herself, returning to the race last month as a well-funded write-in candidate.The decision infuriated Mr. Miller’s supporters. Ms. Murkowski was initially appointed to her Senate seat in 2002 by her father, the governor at the time, a fact that her opponents point out frequently. She was elected to a full term in 2004.Several hundred people attended the rally, at the Dena’ina Civic and Convention Center downtown, and were screened with security wands as they entered.It was the first time Ms. Palin had appeared at a campaign rally with Mr. Miller, and it followed a string of damaging developments for the candidate. Personnel records released this week under court order showed that Mr. Miller had been disciplined in 2008 for using government computers for political purposes, and then lying about it, when he worked as a part-time lawyer for the Fairbanks North Star Borough.For weeks Mr. Miller had refused to discuss the incident. At one campaign event before the records were released, security guards hired by his campaign handcuffed a reporter who asked him about the disciplinary action.Mr. Miller’s relationship with Ms. Palin had also appeared strained. This month, a liberal blog posted e-mails showing Ms. Palin’s husband, Todd, frustrated by the less than emphatic response Mr. Miller gave a television interviewer who asked whether he thought Ms. Palin was qualified to be president.After weeks of silence, Ms. Palin revived her public support for Mr. Miller on Monday in Twitter and Facebook posts in which she attacked Ms. Murkowski for questioning Mr. Miller’s fitness for office in a televised debate.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.“Beyond shameful,” she called it on Thursday.Ms. Palin only appeared for her speech, which lasted about 15 minutes. Afterward, she stood away from the stage with her husband and others for a few minutes, chatting, taking pictures and scrolling through her phone as Mr. Miller spoke. He never thanked her publicly and she appeared to leave before he was finished.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMs. Murkowski’s write-in campaign and the difficulty of polling the state’s often unpredictable and hard-to-reach voters have made the race a wildcard. Some Democrats believe their candidate, Scott McAdams, the mayor of Sitka, could pull out a dark-horse victory in the conservative state if his two opponents split the Republican vote. Ms. Palin said little about Mr. McAdams on Thursday, referring to him once in a dig at Ms. Murkowski.Ms Palin said that Mr. Miller was “running against two candidates who are in complete denial about the problems that big-growing government causes for you all.”“One of them is an out-of-touch liberal, and the other happened to be the mayor of Sitka.”While some said the appearance by Ms. Palin could serve as a strong closing argument for Mr. Miller, others questioned the benefits. The governor is not as popular as she once was in her state.“A lot of people told Joe, ‘Don’t do it,’ ” said Dave Dittman, a Republican pollster who has worked recently for the Miller campaign. “A lot said ‘Do it.’ And he decided to do it.”Mr. Dittman added: “I was on the other side. I told him not to. My guess is personally it would tend to energize the opposition, the people who don’t like her.”That idea seem farfetched to Monte Wallace, who whooped and clapped as Mr. Miller and Ms. Palin spoke.“She believes in God, family and country,” Ms. Wallace said of Ms. Palin. “And he does, too.”Mr. Miller told the crowd that his campaign was “still a David and Goliath battle,” and that his supporters had a special weapon to help him get elected: prayer.“I want you to pray like you’ve never prayed before,” he said.