''The word moqueca means something like ragout,'' she said, explaining the origins of the dish. Like many country foods of the poor, it's a way of using cheap cuts - in this case dark-fleshed fish like mackerel or kingfish - that are not considered fine enough for aristocratic tables, and of cooking everything together in one superefficient, supersavory pot.''If you're poor, you have to take advantage of everything you can find,'' Mrs. Roberts said. ''With these shrimp shells, for instance'' -she pointed to a pot on the back of the little four-burner stove in her tiny kitchen - ''you boil them in water, and whenever you're using water in the recipe, you use this shrimp water instead to give it more flavor.''The fish broth, or caldo de peixe, that is the base of the moqueca is made from fish heads and other scraps. ''That's the secret of cooking from Bahia,'' she said, ''They use the whole fish, head and tail, too.''Because of its mixture of African and European cultures, Bahia is known as the New Orleans of Brazil. Another African element in the region's food is the use of palm oil, or dende, to add velvety texture, flavor and, most important, brilliant orange color. ''People from Bahia hate food without any color to it,'' Mrs. Roberts said as she stirred coconut milk and a couple of spoonfuls of dende into the moqueca sauce.Palm oil has suffered recently from its reputation as a source of highly saturated fat. But butter is also highly saturated, Mrs. Roberts pointed out, and while no one would advocate an all-butter diet, few would object to the use of a couple of tablespoons, as with the palm oil, to finish a sauce for six people.''I use half a cup of olive oil in the moqueca, plus two tablespoons of dende,'' Mrs. Roberts said. ''That's all you need. In Bahia they'd use a lot more fat, but I think it's important for people to know that ethnic food doesn't have to have a lot of salt, a lot of fat, a lot of pepper. You know that folklore that says good food has to be heavy? Wrong! I change all these recipes to my own principles. I'm not going to starve and eat brown rice all my life to be healthy. In everything I cook, I use a third or less of the fat that's called for.''Mrs. Roberts came by her love of good food and good cooking naturally. She grew up in the interior of Brazil, in Belo Horizonte in the province of Minas Gerais. Her father, Carlos Etienne de Castro, who died in 1969, was a journalist. Her mother, Belita di Paolo, never cooked until after she was married. ''My father taught her to cook because he was such a great gourmet and great gourmand,'' Mrs. Roberts said. ''For my father, the most important part of the day was the meal.'' ''If people came by, even at 2 A.M., my father would get up and open a bottle of champagne and make an omelet,'' she said. ''He made fabulous omelets, never the same one twice.'' Was he fat? she was asked. ''No, like this,'' she said, holding up her little finger.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyHer father and mother often cooked together, especially on Saturdays when local politicians and dignitaries gathered at their house for lunch. ''This couple, my mother and father, was about food,'' Mrs. Roberts said. ''The Saturday group was called the Fork Club, and they all loved to get together this way because it was so innocent: they didn't have to pose; they didn't have to have this cocky attitude. They could relax, in other words.''Later, her mother became well known in the region, and indeed throughout the country, as a cook and cooking teacher. Later, she taught Brazilian cooking in the Caribbean, United States and Europe. A lush and creamy avocado mousse with a cool shrimp sauce, a favorite first course at the Robertses' house, was developed by her mother for a Brazilian menu in a Montparnasse restaurant some years ago.''We don't have a big tradition for appetizers in Brazil,'' she said, ''maybe because side dishes are so important on the table. So when the Parisian restaurant said they wanted an appetizer, my mother came up with this.''Mrs. Roberts often turns for inspiration to her mother's cookbook, ''A Cozinha Divertida de Belita,'' published in Brazil in 1982 when Mrs. di Paolo was 70 years old. But she also has a notebook full of recipes her mother has jotted down over the years, some written out, some just notes or lists of ingredients.It might have seemed natural for her to learn to cook in such a household. Yet Mrs. Roberts gives a great deal of credit for her own skills in the kitchen to her husband, whom she met when she was managing a bookstore in Rio de Janeiro and he was traveling there on business. ''Afterward, I came to visit him in Boston,'' she said, ''and he prepared me a wonderful chicken tarragon.'' And then? ''I discovered it was the only thing he knew how to cook,'' she said.''And just look at this,'' she cried dramatically, throwing open the door of the refrigerator to reveal packages and packages of frozen food. ''Now when I go away, he brings Lean Cuisine into my refrigerator!''A hearty voice from the hallway announces Mr. Roberts's return from work for the Bahian lunch. Ms. Cornelia, Mrs. Roberts's friend, has been kept busy putting together caipirinhas (pronounced kay-pi-REEN-yas), the Brazilian cocktail made from limes and sugar macerated in cachaca (ka-SHA-sa), a potent distilled cane alcohol.Caipira is a Brazilian word for a rube or hick, ''almost a redneck but not quite,'' Mrs. Roberts said. ''So a caipirinha is something only a rough country person would drink. But everybody drinks caipirinhas. You can also have a caipirosca, made with vodka instead of cachaca. ''Because it's Russian. Caipi russka. Get it?'' And she winked.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyCapturing the Country's Heady Tastes and SmellsFor these recipes, ingredients like coconut milk (leite de coco), palm oil (dende), manioc flour (mandioca) and hot red peppers preserved in vinegar (pimenta malagueta em vinagre) are sold in shops in Brazilian, West African and often Portuguese neighborhoods. There are no substitutes for palm oil or manioc flour, but Thai hot pepper sauce can substitute for the hot peppers in vinegar, and coconut milk can be made by steeping freshly grated coconut in hot water for an hour, then straining it.Moqueca(Bahian fish stew)Preparation time: About 40 minutesCooking time: 2 hours for the stock, 1 hour 40 minutes for the stew1 1/2 pounds medium-size shrimp, peeled and deveined (save shells for broth)4 to 5 pounds fish heads, fish racks (bones left from fillets) or other scraps like shrimp shells1 medium-size onion, peeled and quartered8 cloves garlic8 scallions, green tops included, trimmed and cut into 4-inch-long pieces1 bay leaf3 sprigs parsley5 cups of water6 large or 12 small fish steaks, 2 to 3 pounds in all (kingfish, mackerel or bluefish preferred)12 large sea scallopsJuice of 1 lemonJuice of 1 lime1/2 teaspoon saltFreshly ground black pepper to taste12 mussels1/2 pound fresh crab meat1 1/2 cups chopped onion1 medium-size green bell pepper, cored, seeded and coarsely chopped1 medium-size red bell pepper, cored, seeded and coarsely chopped1/4 cup olive oil4 ripe fresh tomatoes, or 1 14-ounce can imported plum tomatoes, liquid discarded, peeled and coarsely choppedAdvertisement Continue reading the main story1 bunch fresh coriander, coarsely chopped1 cup unsweetened coconut milk2 tablespoons palm oilCayenne pepper to taste, if desiredPepper sauce (see recipe).1.First make the fish stock. In a stockpot, combine the shrimp shells; fish heads and scraps; the quartered onion; 1 of the garlic cloves, peeled and lightly crushed; 4 of the scallions; the bay leaf, and parsley. Add the water, and bring to a boil. Skim off any foam that rises to the surface. Reduce the heat, and just barely simmer for about 2 hours or until the stock is well flavored. Strain, discarding the solids, and reserve. You should have about 5 cups of stock. The stock can be made well ahead of time and refrigerated or frozen until ready to use.2.Place the shrimp, fish steaks and scallops on a deep platter, and sprinkle with lemon juice; lime juice; 1 clove of the garlic, finely chopped; salt, and pepper. Cover and set aside to marinate not less than 1 nor more than 2 hours. Turn the seafood at least once during this time. Rinse and debeard the mussels. Pick over the crab, discarding any bits of shell and cartilage. Reserve the mussels and crab until ready to use.3.In a large stockpot over medium heat, saute the chopped onion; the remaining 6 cloves of garlic, chopped; the remaining scallions, and the bell peppers in olive oil, stirring frequently, until the vegetables are thoroughly wilted, about 10 minutes. Add 2 cups of the strained fish stock, the tomatoes and coriander, and bring to a simmer. Cover and simmer very gently for about 1 hour.4.When the sauce has finished cooking, puree in a food processor or pass through a food mill. For a more elegant presentation, strain the resulting puree through a sieve. Return the puree to the stove over very low heat. Stir in the coconut milk, and let cook gently for 2 or 3 minutes, then add the palm oil and stir it in. Taste, and add a little cayenne pepper. Add the marinated seafood along with any juices that may have accumulated. Add the mussels. Cover and simmer until the shellfish have opened and the fish steaks are thoroughly cooked, 10 to 15 minutes. Add the crab meat, stir in, and serve immediately.5.Pass the pepper sauce with the stew. A little spoonful (or more, depending on taste) should be drizzled over each serving.Yield: 6 to 8 servings.Molho de Pimenta(Pepper sauce)Preparation time: 25 minutes2 tablespoons fresh lime juice1/2 small onion, peeled and minced1 tablespoon hot red peppers preserved in vinegar2 tablespoons olive oil.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyPlace all ingredients except the olive oil in a small bowl or mortar. Allow to macerate for 20 minutes or longer. Just before serving, mash to a paste, and stir in the olive oil.Yield: about 1/4 cup.Avocado Mousse With Shrimp SaucePreparation time: 20 minutes, plus 2 hours refrigeration1/2 cup cold water3 envelopes unflavored gelatin1 1/2 cups hot water1 15-ounce can plain tomato sauce1 tablespoon white vinegar1 teaspoon salt, or to taste1/4 cup mayonnaise2 tablespoons olive oil4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice2 ripe avocadosUnflavored salad oil for coating panShrimp sauce (see recipe).1.Thoroughly mix the cold water and gelatin, and set aside for 5 minutes. Add the hot water, and stir continuouslyuntil the gelatin has dissolved, about 3 minutes. Add the tomato sauce, vinegar, salt, mayonnaise, olive oil and lemon juice, and mix well. Cover the bowl with foil or plastic wrap, and place in the freezer until the mixture has jelled to the consistency of thick cream, about 20 minutes.2.Peel the avocados, and cut into 1/2-inch squares. Fold the cubes gently into the tomato mixture.3.Lightly grease the inside of a tube pan. Pour the mixture into the pan, cover, and chill until firm, about 2 hours.4.When ready to serve, unmold onto a serving platter, and pour the cold shrimp sauce into the center and around the outside of the mold. Garnish with 6 shrimp reserved from shrimp sauce recipe that follows.Yield: 6 servings.Shrimp SaucePreparation time: 15 minutes3 tablespoons milk1 1/2 teaspoons sugar1 cup mayonnaiseAdvertisement Continue reading the main story3 tablespoons fresh lemon juiceSalt and freshly ground black pepper to taste2 pounds medium-size shrimp, cooked, peeled and deveined1 avocado, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes.Combine the milk, sugar, mayonnaise, lemon juice, salt and pepper in a bowl. Set aside 6 shrimp to garnish the avocado mousse. Gently fold the remaining shrimp and avocado cubes into the mayonnaise mixture. Chill until ready to serve.Yield: 6 servings.Pirao(Manioc polenta)Cooking time: 10 to 15 minutes2 1/2 cups fish brothSalt and freshly ground black pepper to taste1 tablespoon tomato paste1 1/2 cups manioc flour.Bring the fish broth to a rapid boil, and stir in a little salt and pepper. Add the tomato paste, and stir to incorporate thoroughly. Sprinkle in the manioc flour, a little at a time, stirring vigorously and continuously until all the flour has been incorporated and the mixture has the consistency of soft ice cream. Serve immediately; like polenta, pirao gets stiffer the longer it sits.Yield: 6 to 8 servings.