It was not lost on Fitzgerald that the Warriors’ four defeats after 52 games equal the number the Cardinals tallied in their 18-game season, which ended one victory shy of the Super Bowl. Fitzgerald, who grew up in Minneapolis on a steady diet of the Bulls on Chicago’s WGN-TV, said watching the Warriors was like stumbling onto reruns of a favorite childhood show. “Sometimes you’re in the moment and you don’t realize how special this is, what they’re doing,” he said.Led by Curry, the Warriors have publicly embraced the challenge of surpassing the Bulls’ record. In a recent interview with Fox Sports, Curry said defending the title was the team’s primary goal. “But if we have an opportunity to go for it, we’ll go for it,” he said, referring to the 72 wins. “Because how many chances are you going to get to be a team that passes that record?”No wonder Kerr’s head hurts. “You just look at some of the games we’ve played this year, we could have lost a couple of times easily and had six losses instead of four, and then somebody rolls an ankle and you go on a hard road trip and all of the sudden you lose a few and nobody’s talking about that anymore,” Kerr said. “It can go like that.”Referring to the record, Kerr added: “I just know how fragile it is and I know how quickly that whole thing can vanish. I’m not really concerned about the record, to be honest with you. Our goal is to win the championship and defend our title. However we get there doesn’t matter.”These Warriors, Kerr said, give off a much different vibe than the 1995-96 Bulls led by Michael Jordan, who had turned the team’s semifinal playoff exit from the previous season into kindling for his internal fire.“He was angry,” Kerr said. In addition to the 10 regular-season defeats that Bulls team absorbed, there were six or eight other games that they surely would have lost if Jordan had not “put us on his back,” he added. “Steph can do that, too,” Kerr said. “It just looks a little different.”With his quick hands and lightning release, Curry can make an N.B.A. game look like a pop-a-shot contest. He exudes joy, but make no mistake, Kerr said, he has the same competitive wiring as Jordan. “What goes maybe a little disguised sometimes or unnoticed is that Steph is a killer,” Kerr said. “He is an unbelievable competitor and maybe people are fooled because of the way he looks or his demeanor.”