The police officer killings have largely unfolded in the metropolitan area of São Paulo, in which about 20 million of the state’s 40 million people live. Some of the killings involved police officers who were reacting to armed robberies, and some of the victims were recently retired officers. But dozens of the deaths are thought to be execution-style murders.The sheer scale of the killings has unnerved many here. By comparison, there were 56 felonious killings of law enforcement officers in 2010 in the entire United States, which has a population of about 314 million.The fact that so many officers have been killed in this one state has focused new attention on the P.C.C., which emerged in 1993 in São Paulo’s overcrowded prisons, partly in response to the state’s disastrous handling of a 1992 prison uprising in which security forces killed 111 prisoners at a penitentiary complex called Carandiru.The P.C.C. stunned São Paulo in 2006 when it coordinated its fierce outbreak of violence, in which police officers were also targeted for execution. Since then, the P.C.C. has maintained a lower profile while focusing on its drug trafficking operations.PhotoSão Paulo officials claim that no reliable evidence has yet to emerge connecting the P.C.C. to this year’s surge in police officer killings. But other spheres of government appear to have a different take. According to a prominent newspaper here, the federal government’s Brazilian Intelligence Agency, or ABIN, prepared an analysis expressing concern over the potential for police killings by P.C.C. to intensify, drawing a sharp rebuke from Antonio Ferreira Pinto, São Paulo’s secretary of public security.“The ABIN has no expertise in this area of intelligence,” Mr. Ferreira Pinto said in an interview. He acknowledged that the P.C.C. remained a potent criminal force but contended that other drug trafficking groups were largely responsible for the police officer killings, including relatively obscure “marginais,” or delinquents. Of the P.C.C., he said, “They are more worried about narcotics trafficking than confronting the state.”The federal intelligence agency declined to comment. The P.C.C.’s mere existence is a highly sensitive issue in Brazil, especially here in the nation’s richest state, highlighting a security challenge rooted in its own prison system. According to investigative news reports, P.C.C. leaders have continued to operate out of prisons, issuing directives by cellphone and exchanging information via pen drives and cellphone memory chips smuggled behind prison walls.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Altogether, the organization has more than 1,300 operatives throughout São Paulo who are expected to pay monthly dues, according to a report this month by the newspaper Folha de São Paulo based on police documents. In exchange, the group pays for legal fees and provides a monthly allowance for an operative’s family in case of arrest or imprisonment.Advertisement Continue reading the main storySimilar to the efficiency goals of private companies, the organization also sets detailed targets for its operatives in drug trafficking operations, while also expanding its reach into money laundering. Herbert Teixeira Mendes, a public prosecutor who has scrutinized the P.C.C. for more than a decade, has been quoted as likening its business structure to “franchising.”A turning point in the P.C.C.’s profile seemed to come in May, when three police officers with Rota, a feared elite special operations squad within São Paulo’s state police force, were arrested after a witness described their torture of a suspected P.C.C. operative. That episode resulted in the killing of the torture victim, along with five other men believed to belong to the P.C.C.Evidence of extrajudicial executions in separate episodes has long opened the police here to criticism from human rights groups. But the P.C.C. is nothing if not brutal itself.In its apparent thirst for revenge, possibly in connection to the episodes like the one involving torture in May, the group has directed operatives to closely observe police officers before carrying out executions when they are off duty, sometimes in front of their own families, according to televised testimony by one frightened police officer.Killings on both sides have shot up in recent weeks. Eight men believed to be working for the P.C.C. were killed in September by officers from Rota. Graham Denyer Willis, a scholar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies police violence and the P.C.C. in Brazil, described the police unit “like a SWAT team, only much less disciplined.”None of the 40 officers from Rota involved in the episode, which the authorities described as a confrontation, were injured that day. But with eerie precision, Rota lost one of its men just two weeks later, when Mr. Peres de Carvalho, the off-duty member of the elite squad, was shot at dawn on Sept. 27.His assailants, like those in dozens of other unsolved killings this year of police officers in São Paulo, remain at large.