WHETHER they constitute a late supper on New Year's Eve or brunch on New Year's Day, certain dishes always hit the spot. Blinis, Russian buckwheat pancakes, served with red or black caviar, melted butter and sour cream, are one of my favorites, especially with a glass of champagne or iced vodka.Another dish I love on New Year's is pasta with fresh white truffles. These expensive delicacies, flown in from Italy, are now available at many specialty stores. They have an extraordinary aroma that is at once subtle yet pungent. I like them best freshly grated on capellini or fettuccine. Don't skimp on the truffle. If you don't give people enough, they won't be able to taste it at all. Allow about an ounce for six to eight people and grate the truffle thinly with a cheese parer (special truffle graters are also available at some specialty shops but these are costly - and unnecessary considering the few occasions they will be used).Fresh truffles will keep for a week in a closed jar in raw rice which absorbs the moisture (and has a delicious truffle aroma when cooked). Don't try to keep truffles any longer; they deteriorate fast.New Year's dishes don't have to be expensive. On a more modest note, a simple black bean soup is a lovely and restorative dish on late New Year's Eve or the next day - especially for those feeling the worse for wear. To people intent on the ballgame, I like to serve it with salsa (chopped onion, tomato and coriander). A more refined menu might begin with oysters and champagne, with the soup as a main course. Whichever you choose, it will be a sparkling way to begin the New Year. Blinis With Red Caviar Preparation time: 20 minutes; 2 hours unattended Cooking time: 20 minutes 1 1/2 cups milk 1 package yeast 1 1/2 cups white all-purpose flour 1/2 cup buckwheat flour 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar 4 eggs 4 ounces unsalted butter, melted 6 to 8 ounces red or black caviar 2 cups sour cream.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. In a small saucepan bring the milk to a boil and set aside. Dissolve the yeast in a small amount of warm water. Sift the white flour into a bowl and add the buckwheat flour, salt and sugar. Mix thoroughly.