In that time, Ms. Trump has published a New York Times best-selling self-help memoir (with another book scheduled for next spring), started a fashion and jewelry brand, co-starred with her father on “The Apprentice” and become a fixture at fashion shows and at charity balls. Messages about empowering women have been woven into her sales pitch, which blends inspirational mottos with “shop this look” appeals on her website, ivankatrump.com.On Tuesday, for instance, her company sent out a newsletter presenting a giving-back feature to ivankatrump.com — philanthropy tips for millennials. Beneath the “Get Inspired” rubric was a different message: “Give Warmth.” But it wasn’t a coat drive. Instead it was a link to buy Ivanka Trump winter apparel on sale at Nordstrom (a $325 faux Toscana shearling coat knocked down to $199.90).Ms. Trump said on “60 Minutes” last month that when her father becomes president, she will just be a “daughter.” She has said she will use her “heightened visibility” to champion working women. (After the show, Ms. Trump was criticized for her company’s attempt to market the Ivanka Trump $10,800 diamond and gold bracelet she wore during the interview. A day later, Abigail Klem, president of the Ivanka Trump brand, issued a statement saying, “This notification was sent by a well-intentioned marketing employee at one of our companies who was following customary protocol, and who, like many of us, is still making adjustments post-election. We are proactively discussing new policies and procedures with all of our partners going forward.”)Some prominent figures remain skeptical of Ms. Trump’s commitment to their causes.“I don’t think it’s useful to denigrate the image she projects as a working woman and as a mother and a wife, but there are limits to it,” said Faye Wattleton, the former president of Planned Parenthood. “It’s easy to talk about self-help when you have access to the best medical care in the world by virtue of your birth. It’s not so easy when you can’t earn a living wage and you have children to support. And we have not heard her speak out on those hard survival issues.”