As a first-time host of the Oscars, Jimmy Kimmel joked ahead of time that he would wing it. He clearly had some material prepared ahead of time, and used his opening monologue to get in some political shots. He took the stage after Justin Timberlake warmed up the crowd with a performance of his Oscar-nominated song, “Can’t Stop the Feeling.” Here are excerpts from the monologue:• Oh good I got a sitting ovation. Awesome. Well I’ve ruined the Oscars already, I don’t know what to say. Welcome everybody. Thanks Justin Timberlake! Justin — he was terrific, and I want to say on your behalf I really hope the other guys from ’NSync were watching that performance because I think there’s a really good chance they’re going to let you back in the band. Thank you very much, Justin.• Congratulations, everybody who’s nominated tonight. Thank you for letting me be a part of this. I’m excited, I’ve never been to the Oscars before. It’s my first time here. And the way you people go through hosts, it’s probably my last time here. So I’m going to enjoy this while I’m here. This broadcast is being watched live by millions of Americans, and around the world in more than 225 countries that now hate us. And I think that is an amazing thing.• As you know, I don’t have to tell anybody, the country is divided right now. I’ve been getting a lot of advice. It’s time to bring people together. You have to say something. Let’s just get something straight off the top. I can’t do that. There’s only one “Braveheart” in the room, and he’s not gonna unite us either. Mel [Gibson], you look great. I think the Scientology is working. I really do.• I’m not the man to unite this country, but it can be done. You know, if every person watching this show — I don’t want to get too serious, but there are millions and millions of people watching right now — and if every one of you took a minute to reach out to one person you disagree with, someone you like, and have a positive, considerate conversation — not as liberals or conservatives, as Americans — if we could all do that, we can make America great again. We really could. It starts with us.