However, Giuliano Bugialli, the cooking teacher and authority on Italian food, said firmly that tiramis u without mascarpone is not tiramis u at all.''It's sformato zabaglione,'' he insisted, ''unmolded zabaglione.'' Actually, Mr. Bugialli is something of a loose constructionist in the matter of tiramis u. There is no right way to make it, he said, so all versions in the city are the real thing - except the one at Sant Ambroeus.Real thing or no, how does a dessert that was barely known in New York three years ago suddenly become so popular?The chefs who make it generally agree that the stage was set by the increased availability of imported Italian ingredients, especially mascarpone, which can now be purchased in many specialty markets. While cookbooks recommend ricotta cheese mixed with cream as a substitute, there is no comparison in either the texture or taste.New Yorkers have fallen in love with tiramis u under the mistaken impression that it is light. ''That's the main reason,'' said Giovanni Francescotti, general manager of Castellano, where the dessert is made with cream and a dash of brandy.Nina Balducci, who makes the tiramis u at Balducci's, agreed. In her version triple sec, brandy and orange extract are used, and the beaten egg whites are folded in. ''The egg whites make it seem light,'' Mrs. Balducci said.But Pino Luongo, a co-owner of Il Cantinori, believes the popularity of tiramis u, which he makes with zabaglione, is much simpler.Advertisement Continue reading the main story''It is the first Italian dessert that competes with the French,'' he said. ''French cuisine is very decadent, and the more decadence you have the better the dessert. When I serve tiramis u made to order and still warm, then the French can't compete.''Shops that carry one version or another of tiramis u include Balducci's, Todaro Brothers and Sant Ambroeus. They will also make it to order for dinner parties. It is about $3 a serving.It is on the menu regularly or occasionally at Il Cantinori, L'Hostaria del Bongustaio, Castellano, Positano, Sistina, Il Nido, Il Monello and Il Nido Cafe. Il Mulino and Felidia make it on special request.Tiramis u (Il Cantinori)3egg yolks1 1/2tablespoons sugar4teaspoons dark rum1/2pound mascarpone2tablespoons plus 1 cup strong espresso, cooled18Italian ladyfingers (savoiardi);see noteSweet chocolate shavings forgarnish.1.*Whisk the yolks with the sugar until light. Whisk in two teaspoons of rum. Beat in the mascarpone until smooth and then beat in 2 tablespoons espresso until well mixed.2.*Add remaining rum to one cup of espresso. Dip each ladyfinger into espresso mixture; do not soak. Arrange 3 ladyfingers in a pyramid on each of 6 plates.3.*Divide the mascarpone mixture into 6 equal portions and spoon over the ladyfingers. Cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate about 30 minutes or a few hours, if desired.4.*Sprinkle with chocolate shavings and serve.Yield: 6 servings.NOTE: Italian ladyfingers, which are drier and larger than the American version, are preferable. They are available at many Italian specialty markets. If American ladyfingers are substituted, you will need about one-fourth more of them, and they should be toasted at 375 degrees for about 15 minutes to dry them out. Tiramis u (Balducci's)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyNina Balducci adapted this recipe from one taught to her by Giuliano Bugialli.24Italian ladyfingers (see notewith Il Cantinori recipe fortiramis u)1 1/2cups espresso, cooled6eggs, separated3tablespoons sugar1pound mascarpone2tablespoons each Marsala,triple sec and brandy1teaspoon orange extract8ounces bittersweet chocolate,chopped.1.*Dip 12 ladyfingers quickly in espresso. Arrange on flat serving platter in a row.2.*Mix yolks with sugar until pale. Add mascarpone, liqueurs and extract and stir to mix thoroughly.3.*Beat whites until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into mascarpone mixture.4.*Spread half of mascarpone mixture on top of ladyfingers. Sprinkle with half of the chopped chocolate.5.*Dip remaining ladyfingers in remaining espresso. Repeat layering with ladyfingers and remaining mascarpone mixture. Sprinkle with remaining chocolate.6.*Cover lightly with foil and refrigerate at least 1 hour or as long as overnight (but it is best to make the dish about six hours before serving).Yield: 10 to 12 servings. Genoise Genoise is a cake similar in texture to ladyfingers. After it is baked the layers can be cut into strips resembling the fingers.Advertisement Continue reading the main story3eggs at room temperature1/2cup sugar1/2cup flourPinch salt3tablespoons clarified butter,melted.1.*Grease two 9-inch round cake pans. Line each pan with a round of waxed paper; butter paper. Dust paper and sides of pans with flour; tap off excess.2.*Place the eggs and sugar in a heatproof bowl; set bowl over pan of hot (not boiling) water. Beat at medium speed until mixture feels tepid, about 2 minutes. Remove from hot water. Continue beating until thick, light in color and tripled in volume, about 15 minutes.3.*Sift flour several times with salt, then sift mixture, one half at a time, directly over egg mixture, gently folding in after each addition. Drizzle clarified butter very lightly over batter; fold in gently.4.*Pour batter into prepared pans, dividing evenly. Bake 12 to 15 minutes at 400 degrees, until cake is golden brown. Remove from oven; invert pans on wire racks to release cake layers. Gently peel away waxed paper; let layers cool to room temperature.5.*To use for tiramis u, cut each layer in half and then cut halves into strips 1 to 1 1/2 inches wide.Yield: 2 layers.