Just after 11:30 p.m., representatives overwhelmingly defeated a request to adjourn for the day, and officials in both parties braced for a debate that continued to intensify in fervor and frustration.Image “I grew up holding that flag in reverence because of the stories of my ancestors,” said State Representative Michael A. Pitts, foreground in light-colored jacket. Credit Travis Dove for The New York Times“Now there’s a chance that flag’s going to be up there when the Ku Klux Klan comes to town,” Representative David J. Mack III, a Democrat from Charleston County, said about a planned Klan rally on July 18, after lawmakers voted to continue debate. “South Carolina, South Carolina: I keep thinking we’re better than this, and we keep falling right down the same path.”Though a number of prominent white conservatives around the South withdrew their support for the flag’s appearance in government spaces after the massacre, a heated debate here in South Carolina, where the first salvos of the Civil War were fired in 1861, was perhaps inevitable.After Senate passage of the measure on Tuesday, the flag issue moved to the House, which is more fractious and where conservatives vowed not to go quietly if the flag were to be removed. The House debate was interrupted at one point for a Republican caucus meeting, where Gov. Nikki R. Haley repeated her calls to take it down.Amid the oratory, lawmakers repeatedly blocked amendments that would have, at the very least, extended the debate about the flag deeper into July. The amendments were wide ranging — one, for instance, demanded a statewide referendum about the battle flag, while another called for the state flower to be planted where the flag now flies — but they were, either by votes or parliamentary rulings, defeated one by one.The day began with a speech from Representative Wendell G. Gilliard, a Democrat and African-American from Charleston. Standing in a well amid historical portraits, including one of the Confederate general, Robert E. Lee, Mr. Gilliard read the names of the victims of the Charleston shooting, and said that their families “shocked the world” when they forgave the man suspected in the shooting, Dylann Roof — an act, Mr. Gilliard said, that averted “a calamity on top of a tragedy.”