While the data from the survey is still being compiled, she said, Ms. Bara expects the number of children under 5 who died to total 120. “I would say 100 of them for sure were due to cold weather — despite our help,” she said. “Nobody saw it coming.” That worked out to a mortality rate of 2.5 per 10,000 children per day, establishing it as a full-fledged humanitarian disaster, she said.An example was the Parwan-e-Se camp, not far from downtown Kabul, where camp leaders last February reported two deaths of children from the cold, but on Wednesday said the final total had been eight, according to Abdul Samad, the camp representative. Two died in a hospital, but the other six died in the camp, he said. “One of them was my own granddaughter,” he said. One of the smaller camps, Parwan-e-Se is home to 100 families, about 600 to 700 residents, he said.On Wednesday, Ms. Amos, who is on a three-day visit to Afghanistan, toured that camp, largely mud huts in a former vacant lot, walking between open rivulets of sewage and pools of waste and garbage. “Clearly there’s a lot of work we need to do,” Ms. Amos said, acknowledging that the camps’ problems had been chronic and long-term. “The real issue is finding land and helping them to relocate.”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The Afghan government has tried to encourage people in the camps to return to their homes, saying in most places it is now safe enough to do so, but it says that many of the refugees remain because there are better economic opportunities in the capital. Residents disagree and claim their home areas are still too unsafe, and many have asked the Afghan government for land and assistance to build homes here.Revelations about the deaths in the heart of Kabul, despite a 10-year, $60 billion humanitarian effort in Afghanistan, caused an outpouring of public reaction, both in Afghanistan and internationally.Camp residents have been caught in a conundrum of international and government policy. Since the Afghan government insists the camps should be disbanded, they do not generally qualify for development aid since they are temporary facilities. So programs that would provide safe housing, education or jobs are often unavailable.At the same time, since the poor conditions in the camps are chronic and longstanding — most of the camps are more than five years old now — they do not qualify for many types of humanitarian aid earmarked for crises, which are by definition not chronic. In addition, the Afghan government is concerned that if camp conditions are improved too much, it will turn them into magnets for even more refugees.In response to the concern generated over the deaths of children last winter, however, the United Nations and aid groups have banded together to prevent a recurrence if bad weather returns next year.The results of the Solidarités survey were shared with the Kabul Informal Settlements Task Force, which includes United Nations agencies and aid groups, and donors have already earmarked funds to prevent a similar disaster from recurring next year, making sure there is sufficient fuel and other resources to protect the camp populations.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“I think it will be better now, we will be better prepared,” Ms. Bara said. “It’s the least we can do.”