The bullet that killed Mr. Soto was recovered during his autopsy and turned over to the police for ballistic analysis. A law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing, said an analysis showed that a bullet recovered from Mr. Soto’s body had “polygonal rifling,” consistent with the semiautomatic pistols used by the officers who fired their weapons.So far, the only weapons the police have confirmed were used in the shooting were the 9-millimeter semiautomatics used by the officers — including two Glocks, a Sig Sauer and a Smith & Wesson — and a .38-caliber revolver the authorities say was used by either Mr. Soto or Mr. Alvarez during the fight. The police have recovered shell casings and ballistic evidence at the scene from only those five weapons, and several officials said they were not aware of an additional gunman.It was unclear who fired the other bullets that struck Mr. Soto because they all passed through his body, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for Dr. Charles Hirsch, the city’s chief medical examiner.PhotoPolice officials said Sunday after a preliminary review that the shooting appeared to be within their guidelines.Prosecutors in the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr, plan to present the shooting to a grand jury, several law enforcement officials said. A spokeswoman for Mr. Vance, Erin Duggan, would not discuss the case, other than to say that “it is the practice of this office to put all police shootings before a grand jury” and that, so far, no charges had been brought against Mr. Alvarez.Several officers who responded to the shooting and did not fire were questioned on Sunday. The officers who fired will not be questioned by the police because in such cases, the district attorney requests that any interviews be postponed until prosecutors determine if any police conduct could have been criminal. The formal police interviews confer immunity on the officers.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The police said that as Mr. Alvarez and Mr. Soto were on the ground fighting, a witness saw Mr. Soto reach for his waistband. Then several witnesses reported hearing one or two shots, the police said. Mr. Alvarez then got up and fired toward a uniformed officer, the police said. At least two witnesses heard, “Police, freeze” and, “Police, drop the gun,” the police said.The first officer to fire was Douglas Brightman, 31, a uniformed officer who has been on the force eight years. He fired two rounds, one striking the bullet-resistant vest of a plainclothes officer, Michael Tedeschi, who was shot in the chest. He and Officer Alfredo Vargas, 28, who was grazed in the hand, were released from the hospital on Monday. Officer Vargas did not fire.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyOfficer Tedeschi, 36, who has been on the force three and a half years, fired 16 times. He was one of three plainclothes anticrime officers who fired in the direction of Mr. Alvarez. The other two were Sgt. Paul Kerrigan, 39, a 16-year veteran, who fired 16 times; and Officer Thomas Cozart, 34, a five-year veteran, who fired 12 times.The witness accounts retold by the police were at odds with what some other witnesses said had happened. Robert Cartagena, 19, Mr. Alvarez’s cousin, and another witness, Shariff Spencer, Mr. Alvarez’s friend, said they never saw Mr. Alvarez fire a gun.Mr. Alvarez’s lawyer, John J. Carney, met with Mr. Alvarez in the hospital on Monday. He said his client was unable to speak, but motioned “no” when asked if he had had a gun or fired one.None of the officers had been involved in a prior shooting. Since the 2006 shooting of Sean Bell in a barrage of 50 police bullets, it has been standard for all officers in police-involved shooting cases to be given a breath test. They all passed.