Officials in Mr. Hood’s office spent more than a year interviewing former employees and reviewing complaints about Experian from state residents. Investigators found that the company routinely mixed up reports of consumers who have the same name, allowed erroneous information to be included on credit reports and would not correct the errors that consumers had identified. The company also failed to investigate disputed data as required, the complaint said, and accepted creditors’ findings about the disputed information even if it was contradicted by canceled checks or other proof.The results of these practices were dire for many consumers, the suit said. Some were denied credit or forced to pay higher rates for loans they did receive; others lost job opportunities.A spokeswoman for Experian said the company rejected the allegations in the Mississippi lawsuit. “This lawsuit is clearly designed to be sensational,” the spokeswoman said in a statement. “To say we ‘knowingly’ — as the A.G. claims — put errors on reports is false. Contrary to the allegations, credit reports are used millions of times every day to accurately and quickly assess risk in lending and speed the process of making credit readily available to consumers.” She added that Experian believes its database is 98 percent accurate, and that it invests heavily to help improve the number.That may be, but there is no doubt that erroneous information on credit reports remains an enormous problem. Last year, the Federal Trade Commission found that 5 percent of consumers — or an estimated 10 million people — had an error on one of their credit reports that could have resulted in higher borrowing costs.The F.T.C., which oversees the industry along with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has been busy bringing cases in this arena. Since 2000, it has filed 18 enforcement actions against reporting bureaus; 13 were district court actions that generated $25.7 million in penalties.Consumers have also won in the courts, on occasion. Last year, an Oregon consumer was awarded $18.4 million in punitive damages by a jury after she sued Equifax for inserting errors into her credit report. But the fines, settlements and judgments paid by the larger companies are not even close to a rounding error. Experian generated $4.8 billion in revenue for the year ended March 2014, and its after-tax profit of $747 million in the period was more than twice its 2013 figure.Examine these companies’ business models and it’s easy to see why they are resistant to change. For starters, consumers are not the primary source of revenue for the reporting bureaus — credit providers are. They pay for the information every time a consumer applies for a loan, lease or mortgage. Because consumers are not their true customers, the bureaus have little incentive to treat them well.