His killing appears to have been intended as part of a campaign of retaliation by Pakistani militants against President Pervez Musharraf, who has turned his back on the Taliban and on other extremists who have long had ties with the Pakistani government. It also served as an affront to General Musharraf's prestige, since his government had expressed optimism that the case would be solved and Mr. Pearl returned unharmed.Shortly after the abduction, which took place on Jan. 23, the kidnappers began communicating through e-mail messages whose tone was stridently anti-American. They accused Mr. Pearl of being an agent of first the C.I.A. and then Mossad, the Israeli intelligence agency. The second verified e-mail transmission also contained a message in Urdu. As translated by The New York Times, it began, ''Our intention is not to harm Pakistan but to rid it of the slavery of America and other countries.''Among the steps American officials are said to be considering is a request to Pakistan to extradite the prime suspect in the case to the United States for trial. The suspect, Ahmed Omar Sheikh, is a British-born militant who told a Pakistani court that he had been involved in the crime.In Beijing this morning, President Bush released a statement expressing condolences to Mr. Pearl's wife and family. ''Those who would threaten Americans,'' it said in part, ''those who would engage in criminal, barbaric acts, need to know that these crimes only hurt their cause and only deepen the resolve of the United States of America to rid the world of these agents of terror. May God bless Daniel Pearl.''In California, Mr. Pearl's family -- his father, Judea, who is a professor of computer science and statistics and the director of the cognitive systems laboratory at the University of California at Los Angeles, his mother, and two sisters -- released a statement saying, ''we were confident that Danny would return safely, for we believed no human being would be capable of harming such a gentle soul.''It added, ''A musician, a writer, a story-teller and a bridge-builder, he was a walking sunshine of truth, humor, friendship and compassion. We grieve with the many who have known him in his life and we weep for a world that must reckon with his death.''Paul Steiger, the managing editor of The Journal, and Peter Kann, the chief executive of the parent company, Dow Jones, issued a statement saying that Mr. Pearl's colleagues were ''heartbroken.''Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Pearl, whose parents moved to the United States from Israel but remain Israeli citizens, was born in Princeton, N.J., and went to high school in the Los Angeles suburb of Van Nuys. He enrolled at Stanford University in 1981, majoring in communications and serving as host of late-night musical programs for the campus radio station. He was co-founder of a publication called Stanford Commentary, which featured articles on current issues by ideological opponents.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.At The Journal, which he joined in 1990 after working for a series of small Massachusetts newspapers, he made his reputation doing quirky news features that often appeared on the paper's front page.As the war in Afghanistan wound down, Mr. Pearl, who was known among colleagues in the region as a cautious reporter, began to investigate the case of Richard C. Reid, who has been accused to plotting to destroy a Paris-to-Miami passenger jet with explosives hidden in his shoe.Mr. Reid, a British citizen, had studied Islam in Pakistan, reportedly with a figure named Sheik Gilani. Mr. Pearl was seeking to meet with Sheik Gilani when he began telephone and e-mail negotiations that led him to a Karachi restaurant called The Village, where he was apparently met by his abductors.Mr. Sheikh, the main suspect in the case, has admitted to helping lure Mr. Pearl to his kidnappers by suggesting he would have an interview with Sheik Gilani.Three days after Mr. Pearl failed to return home from his evening meeting, Pakistani and Western news organizations received an e-mail message accompanied by pictures showing him with a gun to his head. On Jan. 30, a second e-mail message said he would be killed if the kidnappers' demands -- including a repatriation of the Pakistani prisoners now in American custody in Cuba -- were not met within 24 hours.No other authenticated messages from the kidnappers were received until Wednesday night, officials said. But Mr. Sheikh said in court last week that he believed Mr. Pearl had been killed. Mr. Sheikh, who had been jailed in India for five years on charges of kidnapping three Britons and an American in 1994, is the subject of both the Pakistani inquiry and an American grand jury investigation that could result in his indictment for the abduction and murder of Mr. Pearl.General Musharraf issued a statement of sympathy. A Pakistani government statement also said that the president ''has directed the government of Sindh and other national security agencies to apprehend each and every one of the gang of terrorists involved in this gruesome murder.''Besides Mr. Sheikh, three other suspects remain in custody. One, Fahad Naseem, suspected having a much smaller role in the case, told a Karachi judge that he had sent the e-mail messages announcing the kidnapping, under orders from Mr. Sheikh. Word of the confession came from Mr. Naseem's defense attorney, Khawaja Naveed Ahmed.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAccording to the lawyer, Mr. Naseem said that his cousin, Salman Saqib, another defendant, had taken him on Jan. 21 to a house he had never visited before. At the house, Mr. Naseem said, Mr. Sheikh had given him money to buy a camera.A fourth defendant in the case has been identified as Sheikh Mohammad Adeel, a constable with a special branch of the Karachi police force that holds responsibility for counterterrorism. All are thought to have links to an extremist organization called Jaish-e-Mohammad, of which Mr. Sheikh is thought to be a leader.Law enforcement officials have held a series of discussions with Pakistani officials in recent weeks about the possibility of one or more of the people implicated in the Pearl kidnapping being brought to the United States for prosecution, according to officials. United States law makes it a crime punishable by death to kill an American anywhere in the world as part of an act of terror.The officials said that the Pakistani government had been reluctant to agree to send the suspected kidnappers to the United States. There is no formal extradition treaty between Washington and Islamabad.