Though InBev consistently said it wanted to strike a friendly deal, it proved willing to go hostile. On Monday it began a campaign to unseat Anheuser’s board. It even recruited an uncle of Anheuser’s chief executive as a nominee for its rival slate of directors.The American company responded with a lawsuit in federal court, accusing InBev of lying about its financial commitments. Anheuser went so far as to argue that because of the Belgian brewer’s Cuban operations, the combined company would run afoul of American trading prohibitions against the country.InBev’s persistence was driven by twin desires to capitalize on a weak dollar and to overtake SABMiller of London as the world’s largest brewer by sales volume.Both SABMiller and InBev, themselves the products of mergers struck this decade, have embarked on a wave of consolidation to gain distribution channels around the world.Anheuser, which controls about 50 percent of the United States beer market and owns big stakes in top Mexican and Chinese brewers, would be the new crown jewel in InBev’s portfolio, which already includes Stella Artois, Bass and Beck’s.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.If a deal is reached, it would be the end of the Busch family’s 148 years of control of Anheuser. The only exception was the time from 2000 to 2006 that Patrick T. Stokes was chief executive; he is now the company’s chairman.August A. Busch IV, Anheuser’s current chief and a scion of the Busch family, faced increasing pressure to accept an InBev bid. The company’s own cost-cutting efforts, including a promise to cut its work force by 15 percent, drew little support from analysts or investors. It began facing further pressure after several major shareholders, including Warren E. Buffett, were leaning toward supporting InBev’s offer.W. Randolph Baker, Anheuser’s chief financial officer, said in a statement that the company did not comment on rumors.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAnheuser’s about-face risks raising the hackles of Missouri politicians and customers who rallied to the brewer’s side as it sought to fight off the unwanted advances. InBev sought to head off criticism by promising to keep the combined company’s headquarters in St. Louis and to maintain “the Anheuser-Busch heritage” in the new entity’s name.That did little to assuage Matthew R. Blunt, the governor of Missouri, who said he was “strongly opposed” to an InBev takeover of Anheuser. Last month, he requested a review of the offer by the Federal Trade Commission.“I am concerned that this sale would have destabilizing impacts on our nation and state’s long-term economic interests,” Mr. Blunt wrote in a letter to the regulator. “I am opposed to this buyout and am asking you to conduct this review as quickly as possible.”Anheuser’s political support crossed party lines. Mr. Blunt and Christopher S. Bond, Missouri’s Republican senator, were joined by two of the state’s top Democrats: the state’s other United States senator, Claire McCaskill, and Mayor Francis G. Slay of St. Louis.Mr. Bond said, “InBev buying Anheuser-Busch is as popular in St. Louis as $4 gas.”A spokeswoman for Mr. Blunt said he had no comment beyond his previous statements. Representatives for Ms. McCaskill and Mr. Slay did not return calls.