The recipes that follow are designed to duplicate such an intimate experience. They are for the experienced cook and not easily accomplished without access to a fine Italian grocery. Nevertheless, any one or two of the notions -- the soft, sweet scallops played against tender, nutty fava beans; the poached mozzarella, in a gentle tomato sauce; the mountain of grilled vegetables with pungent robiola cheese and pesto -- can be served with a simple pasta salad or as an accompaniment to grilled food."The nature of each ingredient and the way they are combined is a constant reminder of what connects one to another," Bastianich says. However, as she is quick to point out, "The continuity of the meal is always provided by family and feeling." Scallop and Fava Bean Salad 1 pound fresh fava beans, shelled 3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 1 clove garlic, peeled and minced 1 pound sea scallops 1 teaspoon kosher salt Freshly ground pepper to taste Pinch crushed red pepper 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup Italian parsley, chopped.1. Bring a medium-size pot of water to a boil. Add the fava beans. When the water returns to a boil, blanch the beans until tender but firm, about 2 to 5 minutes. Drain and refresh under cold running water. Skin the beans and set aside.2. Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the garlic and saute for 20 seconds. Add the scallops and sprinkle them with salt, pepper and crushed red pepper. Saute until just cooked through, about 3 minutes.3. Remove from the heat and toss in the fava beans, lemon juice and parsley. Place in a serving bowl, drizzle the remaining olive oil over the top and serve.Yield: Four servings. Octopus and Potato Salad 1 2-pound octopus, cleaned 1 wine cork 2 bay leaves 2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more to taste Freshly ground pepper to taste 2 medium baking potatoes, whole 1 Bermuda onion, peeled and thinly sliced 10 calamata olives, pitted and halved 6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 3 tablespoons red-wine vinegar 2 tablespoons chopped Italian parsley.1. Place the octopus, wine cork, bay leaves, 2 teaspoons of salt and pepper in a large pot and cover generously with cold water. Bring to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat slightly and simmer vigorously until the octopus is tender but firm, about 1 to 1 1/2 hours, skimming the liquid as necessary. Drain and let cool.Advertisement Continue reading the main story2. Meanwhile, place the potatoes in a pot and cover with cold water. Bring to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat, cover and simmer until just tender, about 35 minutes. Drain and let cool. Peel and cut into 1-inch cubes.3. Cut the octopus tentacles from the head and slice into 1-inch pieces. Thinly slice the meat from the head. Toss the octopus and potatoes together in a bowl. Add the onion, olives, olive oil and vinegar and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.Yield: Four servings Buffalo Mozzarella Poached in Tomato-Basil Sauce 3 cloves garlic, peeled and crushed 7 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil 2 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt Freshly ground pepper to taste 2 1/2 pounds ripe plum tomatoes, cored 1 medium onion, peeled and minced 4 balls fresh buffalo mozzarella (about 3 ounces each), drained 18 fresh basil leaves.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.1. Combine the garlic, 4 tablespoons of olive oil, 1/4 teaspoon of salt and pepper to taste and let stand for 30 minutes.2. Meanwhile, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the tomatoes and cook for 5 minutes. Drain well. Pass the tomatoes through a food mill and set aside. Heat the remaining olive oil in a large wide pot over medium heat. Add the onion and saute until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes, remaining salt and pepper to taste. Simmer slowly for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.3. Place the mozzarella in the simmering sauce; only half of each mozzarella ball should be submerged. Remove from the heat and let stand 10 minutes. Chop 8 of the basil leaves and cut the rest across into thin strips.4. Remove the mozzarella from the sauce, being careful not to splash sauce on the top of each ball. Stir the chopped basil into the sauce and scrape it into a serving bowl. Place the mozzarella back in the sauce. Stir the basil strips into the garlic oil and spoon the mixture over the mozzarella. Serve with toasted slices of good country-style bread.Yield: Four servings. Grilled Vegetables With Robiola Cheese And Pesto 2 Japanese eggplants, halved lengthwise 1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more to taste 1/2 cup firmly packed fresh basil leaves 1 large clove garlic, peeled and coarsely chopped 1/4 cup pine nuts, toasted 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 1/2 pound robiola cheese (see note) 2 red bell peppers, seeded and cut lengthwise into 1 1/2-inch-thick strips 2 zucchini, cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices 2 fennel bulbs, tops trimmed off, cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices 8 small scallions, trimmed Freshly ground pepper to taste 1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves.1. Sprinkle the cut sides of the eggplants with 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Place cut side down on paper towels and let drain for 1 hour. Rinse and pat dry.Advertisement Continue reading the main story2. Meanwhile, place the basil, garlic, pine nuts, 1/4 cup of olive oil and 1/2 teaspoon of salt in a food processor and process until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Add the cheese and pulse just until combined. The mixture can be made ahead and refrigerated; bring to room temperature before serving.3. Start a charcoal grill. Brush the vegetables on both sides with the remaining olive oil. Season with salt and pepper to taste and sprinkle with thyme. Grill the vegetables until crisp-tender. Mound the cheese mixture in the center of a platter and surround with the grilled vegetables. Serve.Yield: Four servings.Note: Robiola is a soft Italian cheese available at cheese shops and specialty stores like Balducci's. If unavailable, substitute a mixture of 1/2 cup mascarpone and 1/3 cup ricotta. Crescents With Pecorino Romano Cheese The dough: 2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour 1/2teaspoon kosher salt 3 tablespoons sugar 1 cup cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces 2 egg yolks 2 tablespoons ice water 1 tablespoon brandy 2 tablespoons white wine The filling: 1/2 cup freshly grated pecorino Romano cheese Grated rind of 1 orange Grated rind of 1 lemon Small pinch grated nutmeg 1 tablespoon brandy 2 egg whites 2 tablespoons sugar.1. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. To make the dough, place the flour, salt and sugar in a food processor and pulse to combine. Add the butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal. Whisk together the egg yolks, water, brandy and wine. Add to the flour mixture and pulse until dough begins to come together. Press the dough together, flatten into a disk, wrap in plastic and chill for 30 minutes.2. To make the filling, place the cheese in a medium bowl and stir in the orange and lemon rinds, the nutmeg and brandy. Whip the egg whites until they hold soft peaks. Gradually add the sugar and whip until stiff. Stir half of the egg whites into the cheese mixture. Fold in the remaining whites. Set aside.3. Divide the dough in half. Roll out 1 piece of dough on a lightly floured surface to the thickness of a coin. With a 3-inch-round cookie cutter or glass, cut out as many rounds as possible. Brush the rim of each round with water and place a rounded teaspoon of filling in the center of each. Fold the dough around the filling to form a crescent and pinch the edges to seal them tight. Divide between 2 lightly floured baking sheets.4. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling, rerolling the scraps if necessary to use up all the filling. Bake until the crescents turn a pale blond color, about 8 minutes. Let cool. Serve with a chilled dry white wine.Yield: About 30 crescents.