The Clinton campaign plans to employ Mr. Obama and the first lady, Michelle Obama, as much as possible in the coming weeks, making particular use of the couple in Florida, Ohio and North Carolina — in areas of those states that Mr. Obama won handily in 2008 and 2012.After campaign aides insisted in June that Mr. Obama would not be pigeonholed to reach African-American voters, whose support appeared steady for Mrs. Clinton, the campaign has appeared to acknowledge his help is needed, sending him to cities like Philadelphia and Charlotte, which are home to many black voters.“There’s some thought that without him on the ticket, the same enthusiasm might not be there for Hillary Clinton,” said Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York. “I think it’s very smart for the president to say it’s not just Hillary Clinton in the future, it’s the wiping out of all the progress we made not just over Obama years, but over the many, many years.”If schedules permit, the campaign would like to organize another rally featuring Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton side by side. “It’s a little bit of magic when they’re on stage together,” Ms. Moore said.In a panel discussion this weekend in Washington, Marc H. Morial, the chief executive of the National Urban League, forcefully told a young woman who suggested that some people may not vote because of frustration that “this is not the first generation to be frustrated and not voting is not a viable nor intelligent strategy.”Mr. King and Mr. Morial are also participating in “Barack Obama Election Day,” a designated day on Nov. 1 during which civil rights leaders will seek to engage African-Americans in battleground states around issues, such as an overhaul of the criminal justice system, which Mr. Obama championed. “It’s all about creating some enthusiasm around this race, if not necessarily around a candidate,” Mr. King added.Not everyone finds that pitch or Mr. Obama’s remarks compelling, especially given that African-Americans have been such a loyal voting bloc for the Democrats and the Clintons over the years.“Absolutely hate this framing of the necessity of voting (for Democrats) that places all the blame on marginalized and young folks,” Vann R. Newkirk II, a writer for The Atlantic, said on Twitter. “Black folks have done above and beyond their part already.”