''When she did cook she turned out Cockney dishes, things like stewed eels and mashed potatoes. She loved things like turbot heads and pig's trotters and cow heels. Now that my parents can afford real bits of the animals, they still prefer that kind of food.'' Her parents live in Miss Marsh's cottage in Oxfordshire.Miss Marsh's earliest foray into the kitchen was amusing but far from comforting. ''My father,'' she recalled, ''always said to me, 'You must learn to cook,' and I said: 'I don't have to. I'm going to marry a rich man and he'll have a cook.' Well, when I was 18 years old I did marry a rich man and he did have a cook, but the day after we were married he fired her.'' And directed Miss Marsh into the kitchen.''I literally didn't know how to drop an egg into boiling water nor how to retrieve it,'' she went on. ''But I bought a book called 'Good Food From France' and my first meal turned out miraculously well. The meal consisted of spatchcooked - meaning flattened for broiling - chicken, tomatoes @Antiboise and an English custard. I think it came out well because I didn't have the wit to be nervous.'' Nevertheless, the marriage turned out to be of short duration.Miss Marsh began her professional stage career at the age of 12. Although I have admired her for a long period, principally through her role as a doctor in the recent play ''Whose Life Is It Anyway?'', I was astonished to learn that she first came to America in 1957 to appear with Sir John Gielgud and Margaret Leighton. She also appeared here on television in ''The Moon and Sixpence'' opposite Sir Laurence Olivier.As she put the finishing touches on her pie before it went into the oven -the touches included a ''rose'' with pastry petals and the initials ''N.N.'' - she said that she had given a good deal of thought to her menu for the evening.She thought that it should be decidedly British, so she settled on the pie, which originated in Melton Mowbray, because in her opinion it is, after rare roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, the most typically English of all dishes.The cold veal and pork pie is fully enclosed in pastry, with an aspic covering the meat inside. The raspberry sandwiches were her version of a traditional dessert known as summer pudding. Jean March's Melton Mowbray Pie 2 pounds English pastry for pies (see recipe) 2 pounds very lean, well-trimmed veal 2 pounds very lean, well-trimmed pork 1/2 teaspoon sage Salt to taste, if desired Freshly ground pepper to taste 1 teaspoon lard 1 egg, lightly beaten 2 tablespoons water 1 1/4 cups veal broth (see recipe) 1 envelope unflavored gelatin 2 tablespoons cold water Cumberland sauce (see recipe) optional.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.2. Do not prepare the pastry until the meat is ready to be added to it.3. Cut the veal and pork into small cubes, about half an inch or less. Put the pieces in a bowl and add the sage, salt and pepper. Blend.4. Prepare the pastry and while it is still hot or quite warm set aside approximately one-quarter of the dough.5. Rub the inside of a spring-form pan, 8 1/2 inches in diameter and 2 3/4 inches deep, with lard.6. Add three-quarters of the hot or warm dough to the inside of the pan. Carefully, but quickly, spread the dough neatly and as compactly as possible over the bottom and inside rim of the pan, letting it rise slightly above the rim. Flatten the upward part of the rim slightly outward. Add the meat and pack it down lightly and evenly.7. Roll out the reserved one-quarter of dough on a lightly floured board into a circle about nine inches in diameter. Trim it all around neatly, saving all scraps of dough.8. Brush the upper rim of the dough in the pan with the egg beaten with two tablespoons water.9. Cover the meat in the pan with the circle of dough, making it fit neatly all around. Press together the circle of dough with the dough that overlaps the rim. Crimp the dough to seal well and neatly.10. Cut out a one-inch circle of dough from the center of the pastry to allow steam to escape. Return the circle of dough to the center.11. Gather together any saved scraps of dough and roll the dough out. Cut out ''leaves'' as decoration.Advertisement Continue reading the main story12. Brush the top of the pie, including the cut-out circle of dough, with the beaten egg mixture. Arrange the leaves around the circle of dough in a neat pattern to resemble a rose. Brush the rose all over with the egg mixture.13. Place pie on baking sheet and set in oven. Bake 30 minutes. Reduce the oven heat to 300 degrees and bake an hour and threequarters longer. The internal temperature should be 200 degrees. Remove from oven.14. Carefully remove the rose of dough from the top of the pie.15. Heat the veal broth. Soften the gelatin in the two tablespoons of cold water and stir it into the broth. Carefully, a little at a time, pour the broth into the center hole from which the rose was removed. Use only enough liquid so that it does not overflow onto the pastry lid. Replace the rose.16. Let the pie come to room temperature. Refrigerate for several hours or overnight. Cut the pie into individual serving wedges. Serve with Cumberland sauce, if desired.Yield: 10 or more servings. English Pastry for Meat Pie 4 cups flour 2/3 cup water 1 tablespoon milk 1/2 pound lard Salt to taste, if desired.1. Put the flour in a mixing bowl.2. Combine the water, milk, lard and salt in a saucepan and bring to the boil. Let simmer until the lard melts.3. Add the liquid to the flour, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon to blend thoroughly. This dough should be shaped or rolled while it is still hot or quite warm.Yield: About 2 pounds of dough. Veal Broth 4 1/2 pounds veal bones 2 ribs celery, coarsely chopped, about 2 cups 1 carrot, trimmed, scraped and coarsely chopped, about 1 1/2 cups 2 onions, coarsely chopped, about 2 cups 2 sprigs fresh parsley 3 whole cloves 1/4 teaspoon ground cloves 2 bay leaves 1/4 teaspoon sage 12 peppercorns 2 quarts water Salt to taste, if desired.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Combine all ingredients in a kettle and cook three to six hours or until the liquid is reduced to about three cups.2. Line a sieve with cheesecloth and strain the stock. Carefully skim or pour off all trace of fat. Cook the clear broth until reduced to two cups.Yield: About 2 cups. Cumberland Sauce 1 lemon 1 orange 1/2 cup water 1/2 cup Port wine 2 tablespoons red currant jelly 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar 1/2 teaspoon imported mustard, preferably Dijon Salt to taste, if desired Pinch cayenne pepper.1. Peel the thin outside rind of the lemon and orange. Cut into shreds and put in a small saucepan. Add the water and bring to a boil. Simmer seven minutes. Scoop out and discard the shreds.2. Squeeze the juice from the lemon and orange and set aside.3. Add the Port, jelly, vinegar, mustard, salt, cayenne and lemon and orange juice.4. Bring to the boil and let simmer five minutes. Let cool. Serve.Yield: About 1 cup.