He then chose the route of officer training, and had been promoted to the rank of lieutenant commander by the time the unit was sent into the rugged Tangi Valley of Wardak Province, just west of Kabul .An investigation was under way on Sunday into the weapon used to shoot down their Chinook transport helicopter in a mountainous area of eastern Afghanistan. All 38 people aboard were killed, including 30 Americans, 7 Afghan commandos and an Afghan interpreter. It was the single largest loss of American life in the Afghan war.Military investigators spent Sunday in the Tangi Valley, where the helicopter was shot down, combing the ground to try to verify the initial assessment that insurgents had used a rocket-propelled grenade to down the helicopter.American and Afghan officials said Sunday that the Seals members and Afghan commandos had been called into Wardak Province as a “quick-reaction force” to assist an American ground unit facing stiff resistance from insurgent fighters.“This unit was engaged in heavy fire on the ground, and they called for help,” said one American official briefed on the mission.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The target of the initial mission, which one official said was being carried out by Army Rangers , was a Taliban leader whose network was responsible for a series of attacks and emplacement of roadside bombs.Over the course of his career, Chief Reeves had been deployed to war zones more than a dozen times in the 10 years since the attacks of Sept. 11, earning four Bronze Stars for bravery and meritorious service, each with a “V Device” for valor.The last time the family had seen him was during a Christmas reunion in Shreveport, and even then he did not talk about the specifics of those missions, in keeping with the highly secretive nature of the Navy Seals. In triumph and in tragedy, members of the Special Operations community do not speak of their work.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn fact, many had expressed frustration with the jubilant atmosphere after the raid that killed Bin Laden, marked by fist-pumping and chest-pounding from some politicians and a few retired members of the Seals. Yes, going after High-Value Target No. 1 was a supreme tactical success; but, no, in this line of work, you just do not talk shop.So it was not surprising that when the fate of Seal Team 6 was reversed on Saturday, there was only private mourning across the insular Special Operations community.“There is no more closely knit community than the Navy Seals,” said Thomas W. O’Connell, a former assistant secretary of defense overseeing Special Operations forces, who also noted that all of the military’s secretive counterterrorism units “develop such amazingly tight bonds that cannot be easily comprehended by the average citizen.”While the downing of the Chinook, which also claimed the lives of Army and Air Force personnel, “will be a deep scar indeed,” Mr. O’Connell said that Special Operations forces prided themselves on an unwavering commitment to the mission regardless of the highs and lows of specific operations.“Trust me: they will continue on in the finest traditions of their respective services,” Mr. O’Connell said.