Brussels Paris carried out attacks Name unknown Khalid el-Bakraoui Salah Abdeslam Bilal Hadfi Ibrahim el-Bakraoui Najim Laachraoui Abdelhamid Abaaoud Name unknown Samy Amimour Osama K. Chakib Akrouh Ismaël Omar Mostefaï Foued Mohamed- Aggad Ibrahim Abdeslam Mohamed Abrini accomplices Bilal E.M. Hamza Attou Ali Oulkadi Mohamed Amri Hervé B.M. Jawad Bendaoud Key links between the attacks Abraimi Lazez Hasna Aitboulahcen Mohamed Belkaid Brussels Paris carried out attacks Khalid el-Bakraoui Ibrahim el-Bakraoui Najim Laachraoui Abdelhamid Abaaoud Salah Abdeslam Bilal Hadfi Name unknown Name unknown Samy Amimour Osama K. Ibrahim Abdeslam Chakib Akrouh Ismaël Omar Mostefaï Foued Mohamed- Aggad Mohamed Abrini accomplices Bilal E.M. Hervé B.M. Jawad Bendaoud Hamza Attou Ali Oulkadi Mohamed Amri Key links between the attacks established through fingerprints or DNA evidence Mohamed Belkaid Abraimi Lazez Hasna Aitboulahcen Brussels Paris Khalid el-Bakraoui Ibrahim el-Bakraoui Najim Laachraoui Abdelhamid Abaaoud Salah Abdeslam Bilal Hadfi Name unknown Name unknown carried out attacks Samy Amimour Osama K. Ibrahim Abdeslam Chakib Akrouh Ismaël Omar Mostefaï Foued Mohamed- Aggad Mohamed Abrini Hervé B.M. Bilal E.M. Jawad Bendaoud Hamza Attou Ali Oulkadi Mohamed Amri accomplices Key links between the attacks established through fingerprints or DNA evidence Mohamed Belkaid Abraimi Lazez Hasna AitboulahcenOne of the key connections between the two groups is Najim Laacharoui, the second suicide bomber at the Brussels airport, who made bombs used in both the Brussels and Paris attacks.Another connection between the two groups is Mohamed Abrini, 30. He was detained on April 8 and confessed to being involved in the Brussels airport attack. He had previously been identified as an accomplice in the Paris attacks.Officials said Mr. Abrini was seen with Salah Abdeslam two days before those attacks. The two men were driving a car that was apparently used later to drop off the suicide bombers at a Paris soccer stadium.Lived in BrusselsAbdeslamAt least 14 individuals tied to both attacks were either Belgian or lived in Brussels. A number of the Paris assailants spent time together in Molenbeek, a working-class Brussels district. Salah Abdeslam, the only surviving direct participant in the Paris attacks, was able to hide among family and friends in Molenbeek before his arrest on March 18.Committed Previous CrimesBakraoui brothers Abaaoud AbdeslamMany of the identified assailants in both plots had criminal backgrounds. Abdelhamid Abaaoud and Ibrahim Abdeslam spent time in the same Brussels prison. The Bakraoui brothers had been sentenced to prison for violent crimes, including carjacking and bank robbery.Visited or Tried to Enter Syriael-BakraouiMany of the individuals directly involved in the Paris attacks had traveled to Syria. Ibrahim el-Bakraoui was deported by Turkey back to Europe last year, suspected of being a terrorist fighter trying to enter Syria, Turkey’s president said.Had Previous Terrorist Tiesel-Bakraoui AbaaoudSeveral of the Paris assailants had ties to terrorism that were known by the authorities before the attacks. Abdelhamid Abaaoud, for example, has been linked to several earlier plots. The federal prosecutor in Belgium said that an arrest warrant had been issued for Khalid el-Bakraoui in December by the judge investigating the Paris attacks.Shared Apartmentsel-Bakraoui Abaaoud Hadfi Abdeslam LaachraouiFingerprints of at least three Paris attackers were found in apartments rented by two of the Brussels bombers. Salah Abdeslam’s fingerprints were found in a Brussels apartment rented by Khalid el-Bakraoui and another one rented by Najim Laachraoui, who used it as a bomb-making lab. The fingerprints of two other Paris attackers, Bilal Hadfi and Abdelhamid Abaaoud, were found in a safe house, also rented by Mr. Bakraoui.Of Moroccan DescentAbaaoudMany were of Moroccan descent or had relatives there. The parents of Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the suspected chief planner of the Paris attacks, were Moroccan immigrants to Belgium. The father of the two brothers in the Brussels attacks was a devout Muslim who had also emigrated from Morocco.Attacked in GroupsSubway Airport Abaaoud Abdeslam Stadium Restaurant BataclanThe assailants carried out most of the attacks in Brussels and Paris in groups of two and three. Salah Abdeslam had planned to help carry out attacks at the stadium in Paris, but backed out. Abdelhamid Abaaoud is believed to have been one of the assailants at the restaurant in Paris.Geographic Clues: Sites Related to Paris and BrusselsSeveral people involved in both attacks spent time in the Brussels neighborhood of Molenbeek.Brussels attacks Arrests Other Paris Attacks Arrests Other Explosives found Bar frequented by suspects Bomb-making material found Two suspects’ family homes Molenbeek Brussels European Parliament Fingerprints of Paris suspect found in house rented by Brussels suspect 1 MILEFingerprints of two Paris attackers were found in a house in Charleroi, near the French border. The house is believed to have been rented by Khalid el-Bakraoui, one of the Brussels attackers. DNA traces of Najim Laachraoui, a bombmaker involved in the Paris and Brussels attacks, were found in another house in Auvelais.