The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Jan. 9-12 with 1,178 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 1,061 said they were registered to vote.The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to ensure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population.Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.For purposes of analysis, black Americans were oversampled in this poll. Phone numbers at which a self-identified black respondent had been interviewed in national polls over the last six months were recalled, and a random member of the household was interviewed. If that person was black, he or she was included in the oversample. All black respondents were then weighted back to the proper proportion of blacks in the poll, as determined by census data.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all American adults. For smaller subgroups, the margin of sampling error is larger. For 504 self-described Democratic primary voters, it is four points; for 282 self-described Republican primary voters, it is six points; and for 185 blacks, it is seven points.In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results.