The Chinese economy is unquestionably in a rough patch, and maybe something worse. Growth is downshifting from the double-digit rate of a few years ago, and the country’s investment-and-exports-driven growth model is looking exhausted after driving a generation of prosperity. A stock market crash in the last few months also hasn’t helped.But a hidden cost of the Chinese government’s strategy of keeping the renminbi within a narrow trading band against the dollar is that China has been unable to take advantage of one of the crucial tools most countries use when they’re in an economic slowdown.The Renminbi’s Abrupt Drop The Chinese government allowed its currency to fall sharply on Tuesday. Yuan-per-dollar 6.80 6.60 6.40 6.20 6.00 6.33 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Yuan-per-dollar 6.80 6.60 6.40 6.20 6.00 6.33 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015The renminbi on Monday was at about the same exchange rate versus the dollar that it was in mid-December. But in that time, the dollar index was up 8.7 percent, meaning the dollar — and by extension the renminbi — was up that much against other advanced nations’ currencies, like the euro, the yen and the British pound.Linking the value of China’s currency to the dollar has had benefits, but in the last year has also come at a big cost: It has resulted in the renminbi’s rise against competitors and trading partners when the economic fundamentals of China would argue for it to fall.China is looking to assert more of a leadership role in the global economy, and an important piece of that is establishing the renminbi as a reserve currency. The dollar and the euro have a reach and a usefulness far beyond the borders of the countries that use them, and China would like the renminbi to have a similar sway in global trade and finance, especially in Asia.But you can’t really be a global reserve currency when you maintain all the restrictions that China insists on in the interest of keeping control of its domestic economy. The dollar wouldn’t play its central role in global finance if the American government made it illegal to exchange it for other currencies in many circumstances or used legal prohibitions and aggressive interventions to keep its value from fluctuating in response to market forces.In other words, China has wanted some of the diplomatic benefits it would gain if the renminbi became a more important currency abroad, without paying the price at home.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyJust last week, the International Monetary Fund said that the renminbi was not quite ready for inclusion in the basket of currencies the I.M.F. uses for “special drawing rights,” a reserve asset that currently is a mix of dollars, euros, yen and pounds. Christine Lagarde, the organization’s managing director, said China needed to make its currency more “freely usable.” And the policy change on Tuesday, by moving closer to a world in which markets determine its price, is a step in that direction.That doesn’t mean it was without cost. The cheaper renminbi will mean higher inflation and will create a greater burden for Chinese companies that owe money in dollars, potentially setting off a new round of failures. Perhaps more important in the long run, as China liberalizes its currency, it gives up a crucial tool that the government has used for years to manage the economy and protect itself from being buffeted by global economic forces. China’s leadership has been reluctant to give up that power, and that’s why Tuesday’s announcement came as such a shock to global markets.But it isn’t often that a policy choice helps achieve two big national goals at once. And when faced with such a choice, it appears China’s leaders were willing to give up a little bit of power for, they hope, better economic results at home and a bigger role in the global financial system.