“The big characters construct a utopian miracle, stirring people’s passions,” Mr. Ju said. “But when I arrived on the scene and looked at the gravel that forms the big characters, I only felt a deep sorrow.”In the film, Mr. Ju intersperses scenes of crowds chanting “Long live Chairman Mao,” the May 1968 demonstrations in Paris, President Lyndon B. Johnson delivering a speech on the war in Vietnam and Soviet tanks crushing the Prague Spring with his drone footage of the stones. At the premiere in Beijing on Friday evening, he said, he plans to split the film and present it on two screens side by side, with one showing the international unrest and the other the gravel.Mr. Ju first heard about the navigational markings in 2002 from a friend in Hami, but he thought his friend was joking. It was not until late 2014, when he happened to be using Google Earth to research another film project, that he looked for the marks himself.Photo“I was shocked by how clearly visible they were,” he said.After learning they were built in 1968, a year that had long intrigued him for the political stirrings around the world, he decided to make a film, he said. It was also around 1968 that his parents, two “sent-down youths,” left their homes in the eastern province of Jiangsu in response to Mao’s call to urban students to learn from farmers and to cure themselves of bourgeois thinking. Mr. Ju was born in Urumqi, the capital of Xinjiang, in 1975.He set out with eight crew members and two drones from Beijing to Hami last June and spent eight days filming the big characters. “The marks are little known even to local residents,” Mr. Ju said.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Ji Chenye, 80, who designed the markings, came to Hami in 1966, when the military was planning to set up the Eighth People’s Liberation Army Aviation School. The school opened in 1967, and Mr. Ji served as the navigation director of a regiment that trained at Luotuojuan, a military airport southeast of Hami.In 1968, Mr. Ji decided to create five navigational signals around the airport, to guide pilots trying to make their way over the featureless desert. He said he chose the five slogans not just for political reasons, but because he believed they would fortify the pilots’ resolve.“The characters pushed them to work harder, flying into the sky and defending our motherland,” Mr. Ji said in a telephone interview from Tonghua, in the northeastern province of Jilin, where he was principal of a school for public security officials from 1982 until his retirement.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Ji said he first marked out the characters on the desert floor. Then several dozen soldiers and trainees spent nearly half a year removing stones so the bare earth would reveal the characters. Each character occupies about 50 square meters of land, or more than 500 square feet, he said. The five slogans together occupy an area of around 75,000 square meters, or 18 acres.The Luotuojuan airport was abandoned after the school, whose alumni include China’s first space traveler, Yang Liwei, merged with another military aviation school in the early 1990s, Mr. Ji said.Mr. Ji, clearly proud of his mammoth calligraphy, said he had never heard of any other navigational markings like these anywhere else in China.“I feel these are part of our country’s cultural heritage,” he said. “Even in the world, I believe they are the best.”