These are early days, but Mr. Hollande’s numbers have been eroding, while Mr. Sarkozy is deeply disliked by some 60 percent of French voters, including some who support the general direction of his policies.Mr. Hollande tried on Sunday to answer his critics with an impassioned if wandering speech about his conception of the presidency, shouting himself hoarse as he talked about resuscitating “the French dream” of a better life built on equality, justice and secularism.“The French dream is confidence in the future, in democracy,” he said. He emphasized better education, and said that if he were to be judged on one thing, he would want it to be whether the lives of French youth were better in 2017, at the end of the next presidential term.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.“Change is now,” he said, offering a slogan for his campaign that echoes that of Barack Obama in 2008.Mr. Hollande said that under Mr. Sarkozy, France had “degraded” not only in its credit rating — lowered last week to AA+ from AAA by Standard & Poor’s — but also in its public life. He insisted that he would be “the president of the end of privileges” and said, in an unsubtle reference to Mr. Sarkozy, “I love people, while others are fascinated by money.”Considered too centrist by many in his own party, Mr. Hollande struck some traditional left-wing themes in his speech. “My real adversary has no name, no face, no party; it will never be a candidate, even though it governs,” he said. “It is the world of finance.”He has tried to wrap himself in the spirit of the previous Socialist president, François Mitterrand, who left office in 1995, and whose daughter Mazarine Pingeot was in attendance on Sunday. So was Ségolène Royal, Mr. Hollande’s former partner and the mother of four children with him; Ms. Royal was the party’s standard-bearer in 2007 and was defeated by Mr. Sarkozy. Mr. Hollande’s current partner, the journalist Valérie Trierweiler, was present as well.Mr. Hollande laid out some specific policy proposals, but no estimates of what they would cost; party officials said those would come later. Mr. Hollande promised that while the total number of state employees would not increase, he would hire more teachers. He promised to build more housing, to cut the pay of the president and cabinet ministers by 30 percent, to balance France’s budget by 2017 and to reduce the country’s dependence on nuclear power.He also said that he would decide in May when to pull French troops out of Afghanistan, saying that “our mission is finished”; that he would renegotiate the new European Union treaty now being drafted based on a Dec. 9 agreement; and that he would negotiate with Germany on a new treaty between their two countries. But he spent little of his speech on international issues.