There are certain lazy stories about the repressed quirks and eccentricities of Japanese society that consistently make Western news: declining birthrates. Sexless marriages. Punishing corporate cultures. These accounts create a portrait that makes the country seem stranger than fiction, while failing to capture its mystery, the depths of its introspection or its complicated relationship with modernity. This fall, four collections of short stories — either newly translated or reprinted — offer a more nuanced perspective.Yukiko Motoya’s English-language debut, “The Lonesome Bodybuilder” (Soft Skull Press), translated by Asa Yoneda, features characters that move in and out of surreal circumstances as if wandering through different rooms of a house. In the story “The Straw Husband,” a woman is married to a man made of straw who, after becoming upset with her, begins to spew miniature orchestral instruments — timpani, clarinets, snare drums — from his body, until he’s left deflated and unconscious. This is just one of several of Motoya’s stories that examine relationships, especially marriage between a man and a woman, with an absurdist lens. But we can still recognize the discord and unruliness of human emotions; the story unfolds with a kind of quiet violence often found in the domestic realm.Writing two generations earlier was Taeko Kono, whose short story collection “Toddler Hunting and Other Stories,” originally published in Japan in 1961, was just republished by New Directions in a translation by Lucy North. Kono’s stories follow a more traditionally realist structure in keeping with the postwar modernist writers of her time. But her worlds are filled with women you don’t normally find on the page: a 30-something former opera singer, for instance, who resists marriage but not the dark fantasies she harbors involving pudgy little boys. There’s also another young woman who, on a snowy winter night, must cope with the recent death of her abusive mother. Both the sadism and masochism here is very raw — but pain and pleasure mingle in ways that never cease to be surprising or poetic.Image An 18th-century Noh mask of a young woman. Credit AKG-ImagesKono — along with such giants as Junichiro Tanizaki, Yukio Mishima and Yasunari Kawabata, as well as contemporary talents like Banana Yoshimoto — is among the many Japanese writers whose work is collected in “The Penguin Book of Japanese Short Stories” (Penguin Classics). The book is organized by theme, from natural disasters to the sensation of dread, which Haruki Murakami, another contributor, discusses in his introduction. The most compelling entry may be Yuten Sawanishi’s “Filling Up With Sugar,” translated by the book’s editor, Jay Rubin, which is about a young woman left to care for her dying mother and contains the shocking first line: “The vagina was the first part of her mother’s body that turned to sugar — probably because it was the one organ for which her mother no longer had any use.” Otherwise realistic, the horror of aging is thus disguised by the strange science of witnessing a body crystallize itself.