So sometimes insurers just pay — to protect their customers, they say — which encourages the practice. When Mr. Drier complained to his insurer, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, that he should not have to pay the out-of-network assistant surgeon, Anthem agreed it was not his responsibility. Instead, the company cut a check to Dr. Mu for $116,862, the full amount.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyUnexpected FeesWhen Mr. Drier agreed to surgery in December, he was not in a good position to bargain or shop around. Several weeks earlier, he had woken up to excruciating pain in his upper back and numbness and weakness in two fingers of his left hand, which persisted. A scan showed that one of the disks that normally serve as cushions between vertebrae was herniated and pushing on a nerve. With a busy job and social life, he was living on painkillers.VideoThe rate of spinal surgery in the United States is about twice that in Europe and Canada, and five times that in Britain, said Dr. Richard A. Deyo of Oregon Health and Science University, who studies international comparisons. Studies are limited but have generally concluded that after two years, patients who have surgery for disk problems do no better than those treated with painkillers and physical therapy — although the pain, which can be debilitating, resolves far more rapidly with surgery.The United States has more neurosurgeons per capita than almost any other developed country, and they compete with orthopedists for spinal surgery. At the same time, Medicare and private insurers have reduced payments to surgeons. The average base salary for neurosurgeons decreased to $590,000 in 2014 from $630,000 in 2010, according to Merritt Hawkins, a physician staffing firm.To counter that trend, some spinal surgeons have turned to consultants — including a Long Island company called Business Dynamics RCM and a subsidiary, the Business of Spine — that offer advice on how to increase revenue through “innovative” coding, claim generation and collection services.Some strategies used by surgeons, including billing large amounts for a second surgeon in the room or declaring an operation an emergency, raise serious questions. The indications for immediate spinal surgery, such as loss of bladder function or rapidly progressive paralysis, are rare. But insurers are more likely to reimburse a hospital or surgeon with whom they do not have a contract if a case is labeled an emergency.Mark Sullivan, 46, of New Jersey, went to an emergency room last year with excruciating lower back pain and leg weakness. He was in the operating room less than 24 hours later. “The surgeon stood at the foot of my bed and said, ‘You need surgery; you won’t walk out of the hospital,’ ” he recalled.Mr. Sullivan’s emergency admission made it easier for an out-of-network surgeon to perform the operation and bill $29,000. The insurer paid $9,500, and Mr. Sullivan paid about $580, as required by his plan. When the doctor’s billing office pursued Mr. Sullivan for the balance of the bill and even threatened to turn his account over to collection, he agreed to file an appeal with his insurer for additional payment, but he refused to pay more himself.A Last-Minute SurpriseMr. Drier’s concern about extra charges began even during his preoperative physical. The hospital sent his blood tests to an out-of-network lab and required him to have an echocardiogram (eventually billed for $950), even though he had no cardiac history. (The American Society of Echocardiography discourages such testing for patients with no known heart problems.)Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.His worries escalated as he lay prepped for the operating room on the morning of his surgery. A technician from a company called Intraoperative Monitoring Service L.L.C. asked him to sign a financial consent form, noting that the company did not accept Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, so he would be required to pay the bill himself. The monitoring had been ordered by his surgeon and is considered essential for the type of neurosurgery he was having, to make sure delicate nerves are not damaged as they are manipulated.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“I demanded to know the price, and when he said he didn’t know, I made him call,” Mr. Drier recalled. When the technician said it would be $500 plus an hourly rate, Mr. Drier negotiated it down to $300.In the operating room, he underwent a procedure called spinal fusion, in which the surgeons removed two herniated disks that were impinging on nerves, and inserted some bone graft as well as plates and screws to stabilize the spine. On his hospital bill, Mr. Drier noted charges for three implants, a total of about $10,400, as well as for two surgical screws billed at $2,470 and $3,990 — expensive for hardware, he thought, but his insurer paid the full amount.The biggest surprise was the bill from Dr. Mu, the assistant surgeon. Fusions generally require a second trained pair of hands, but those can be provided by a resident or a neurosurgical nurse or physician assistant employed by the hospital, for whom there is no additional charge. The operative record for Mr. Drier’s surgery states that no qualified resident was available.Dr. Mu is the chief of neurosurgery at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens, though he sometimes operates at other hospitals. According to a database that tracks hospital admissions in New York State, most operations he performs at Jamaica involve emergency surgery on Medicaid patients, often victims of trauma — a challenging but probably not very lucrative practice.One insurer, Aetna, is in court with Dr. Mu’s private-practice group, NeuroAxis Neurosurgical Associates of Kew Gardens, Queens. NeuroAxis sued to recover higher payments for its out-of-network assistant surgeons; Aetna says the practice’s fees for those surgeons are excessive. J. Edward Neugebauer, chief litigation officer at Aetna, said the company had also sued an in-network neurosurgeon on Long Island who always called in an out-of-network partner to assist, resulting in huge charges. The surgeons shared a business address.PhotoSurgeons from other specialties also team up: After Gunther Steinberg of Portola Valley, Calif., had a needle biopsy of an eye lesion in 2010, he discovered that his insurer had paid about $10,000 to the eye surgeon who performed the outpatient procedure and $10,700 to a second ophthalmologist in the room.“The idea of having an assistant in the O.R. has become an opportunity to make up for surgical fees that have been slashed,” said Dr. Abeel A. Mangi, a professor of cardiac surgery at Yale, who said the practice had become commonplace. “There’s now a whole cadre of people out there who do not have meaningful appointments as attending surgeons, so they do assistant work.”In Mr. Drier’s case, each surgeon billed for each step of the procedure. Dr. Tindel billed $74,000 for removing two disks and an additional $50,000 for placing the hardware that stabilized Mr. Drier’s spine. Dr. Mu billed $67,000 and $50,000 for those tasks.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIf the surgery had been for a Medicare patient, the assistant would have been permitted to bill only 16 percent of the primary surgeon’s fee. With current Medicare rates, that would have been about $800, less than 1 percent of what Dr. Mu was paid.Visitors Who BillUnexpected fees are routinely generated outside the operating room as well. On the wards, a dermatologist may be called in to examine a rash and perform an expensive biopsy. The person in scrubs who walks a patient to a bathroom for the first time after hip surgery may turn out to be a physical therapist billing $400.Mr. Sullivan, who had the emergency back surgery, discovered charges from more than 10 providers in the 48 hours after his operation. (The surgery involved simply trimming a herniated disk in his lower back.) He wrote to various doctors to dispute bills, saying, “I was admitted to Overlook Hospital from Nov. 26-27, 2013, and I have received numerous invoices for procedures that were never done, by physicians that never treated me.”He was puzzled by $679 in occupational therapy charges involving the delivery of a device to help him put on his socks, which he never used. He was irate about charges from a group of hospital-based primary care physicians from Inpatient Medical Associates, who visited him briefly once a day and billed close to $1,000 in out-of-network costs.PhotoHealthy surgical patients typically do not need a general doctor; an anesthesiologist clears them for surgery. Mr. Sullivan noted that if he had needed an internist, he would have called his own, who is in his insurance network and whose office is just down the block.Dr. Mangi, the Yale cardiac surgeon, said hospitals often encouraged extra visits for both billing and legal reasons. He said he was required to request a physical therapy consult before each discharge, for example, even if he felt there was no need.“You can cut fees, but institutions find ways” to make the money back, he said. “There’s been a mushrooming industry of mandatory consultants for services that neither doctors nor patients want.”A Possible RemedyFor months, Mr. Drier stewed over what to do with the $117,000 check Anthem Blue Cross had sent him to pass on to Dr. Mu, refusing to sign over a payment he considered “outrageous and immoral.” He worried that such payments could drive up premiums at his employer.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn the past few years, some insurers have filed lawsuits and sought injunctions to prevent providers from going after their clients for payment of unexpected medical bills. Dr. Scott Breidbart, chief medical officer at Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield, part of the same parent company that covers Mr. Drier, said that it had not taken that route, but that in some situations it had refused to do further business with in-network surgeons who repeatedly called in out-of-network assistants.A New York State law that will take effect in March — one of a few nationally — will offer some protection against many surprise charges and require more advance disclosure from doctors and hospitals on whether their services are covered by insurance. It states, for example, that patients are not responsible for unforeseen out-of-network charges beyond what they would have paid in-network. It directs insurers and hospitals to negotiate any further payment or enter mediation.In many other countries, such as Australia — where, as in the United States, people often rely on private insurance — it is seen as a patient’s right to be informed of out-of-pocket costs before hospitalization, said Mark Hall, a law professor at Wake Forest University.VideoMr. Drier tried to negotiate with the surgeons to divvy up the $117,000 payment in a way he believed was more fair; he liked Dr. Tindel and felt he was being underpaid. Mr. Drier’s idea, he wrote in an email, was to settle on “a reasonable fee for both the surgeon and assistant and return the rest of the check to the insurance company/employees” of his company.But in July, he received a threatening letter from Dr. Mu’s lawyer noting that he had failed to forward the $117,000 check. So he sent it along, with regret.