It takes a little bit to set up. First you must download the free Google Chrome to Phone extension on your computer and install it in the Chrome browser. Then, download the free app from the Google Play store. Now make sure you’re signed in to your Google account in both places.Image Credit Minh Uong/The New York TimesYou’ll see a little phone icon at the top of your browser page. Now, let’s say you look up directions on Google Maps on your computer. Just click the little phone icon to send it to your Android phone. You’ll see a link to the map in your notifications on your phone and after you tap it, the directions will open in Google Maps on the phone.That’s probably the best reason to use Chrome to Phone, but I also find it useful for sending phone numbers or a snippet of text that I want to send as a text message. You can just highlight some text on a page, click send to phone, then paste that text into a tweet, text or the phone dialer on the phone.BUILT-IN FITNESS TRACKER Android has built-in support for step-tracking and motion-tracking sensors. As a result, many Android phones can basically be their own activity trackers — no need for a separate wearable device.Google’s own app, Google Fit, does basic activity tracking throughout the day, and you can enter your weight and some generic activity goals. It also integrates with a few apps, like RunKeeper and Strava, but not MyFitness Pal, a popular calorie-tracking app. The app is limited, but if tracking activity motivates you, the tracking patterns are nicely displayed.Many manufacturers have built more full-featured health software into their Android devices. Samsung has S Health, which uses the tracking sensors plus a full personal profile and built-in calorie and nutrition tracking. LG Health on the LG G3 also tracks daily activity, lets you record your own running, walking or biking routes, and shows exercise stats over time. And the HTC One M8 comes with Fitbit’s software preinstalled, for activity, sleep and food.