The decision came after Mr. Cheney tried to persuade President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen to give up delivery of the battlefield-range missiles, the same kind Yemen has bought from North Korea before.Mr. Cheney then consulted with Mr. Bush, and afterward the Yemeni leader -- who also spoke today with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell -- was told that he could have the ship's contents. Administration officials said Mr. Saleh had agreed to keep control of the missiles and not pass them on to either Iraq or terrorist groups. The State Department spokesman, Richard A. Boucher, also said Secretary Powell had received assurances from Mr. Saleh that no more Scuds would be bought from North Korea.Mr. Cheney's involvement underscored the sensitivity of the diplomatic task. He and Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld have been outspoken about the need to cut off North Korea's sources of income and highly critical of its sale of weapons to other countries. But administration officials acknowledged that it was impossible not to yield to Yemen's request for the missiles because of its strategic location and its cooperation in the American fight against Al Qaeda.To that end, Yemen has gone so far as to let the Central Intelligence Agency operate pilotless Predator drone aircraft over its territory. A Predator fired a Hellfire antitank missile in Yemen last month, killing six suspected Qaeda operatives. Officials said a senior leader of Al Qaeda, Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi, was among the dead.''I suppose we could have seized the ship for a while and delayed the delivery,'' one senior administration official said tonight. ''But what purpose would it have served? Why anger the Yemenis if we ultimately were going to have to turn it over?''There was little doubt that maritime law allowed the initial, temporary seizure of the freighter. American and Spanish officials said it was sailing without a flag and had its identification markings obscured by paint, rendering it a lawless, stateless vessel comparable to a pirate ship.Neither North Korea nor Yemen has signed the Missile Technology Control Regime, which seeks to limit the spread of missiles capable of carrying weapons of mass destruction. The sale of Scuds, therefore, was not illegal. But the ship's anonymity and hidden missile cargo indicated that at the least, North Korea sought to avoid discovery.Advertisement Continue reading the main story''I think most people would see this as a clear indication that there was no interest on the part of North Korea in being upfront about what it was doing,'' said one Pentagon official. ''Why else would they have hid the cargo, filed an improper manifest, and told the captain to give false stories about where he was going? North Korea was not trying to do this in an overt way.''As of tonight, North Korea had no official comment on the incident.In August, the North was penalized by the United States for a similar sale to Yemen; that time it was Scud missile components. The penalties, which singled out the North's work on missile technology, were largely symbolic, because the United States had already severed any economic ties.Today's situation mirrored one last month, involving Pakistan's purchase of missile parts from North Korea. In that case, too, American intelligence tracked the transaction but was unable to stop it or dissuade Pakistan, which has been a critical ally in the American military campaign in Afghanistan.Asked today whether the United States had thought Iraq -- which has no history of buying from North Korea -- was the intended recipient of the missiles, American officials said it had been considered a possibility.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.If Iraq had been the buyer, not only would confiscating the shipment have been legal under United Nations resolutions, but Iraq would also have been in material breach of those resolutions. The missiles would have given the United States grounds for war.Today, Mr. Fleischer called the effort against the freighter ''a very successful coalition interdiction.''But that was apparently cold comfort to Mr. Bush, whom a senior official described as ''a very, very unhappy man'' after deciding to send the ship on its way to Yemen.Veterans of the Clinton administration, described by Mr. Bush and his aides during the presidential campaign as being too soft on North Korea, said they were stunned by the decision to release the cargo.''The administration's actions in this case were confused and contradictory,'' said Robert Einhorn, who led the nonproliferation efforts in the State Department under Mr. Clinton.Advertisement Continue reading the main story''They must have known the nature of the cargo and the destination from the beginning,'' he said. ''They should have determined at the outset whether they were ready to see it through. Now, having reversed themselves, how can they go to other countries and try to discourage them from purchasing North Korean missiles?''Mr. Bush's decision also brought sharp criticism late today from Rep. Edward J. Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who is co-chairman of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Non-Proliferation.''The Bush administration, in its focus on disarming Iraq, appears to be ignoring other potential threats to our security,'' he said. ''Before it let the North Korean vessel go, it should have demanded a full and complete investigation of the circumstances surrounding this entire incident.''Mr. Rumsfeld, touring the Horn of Africa this week, expressed his irritation today at North Korean officials.''They continue to be the single largest proliferator of ballistic missile technology on the face of the Earth, and they are putting into the hands of many countries the technologies and capabilities which have the potential for killing hundreds of thousands of people,'' Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters in Djibouti.In Madrid today, the Spanish defense minister, Federico Trillo, gave new details of how two of its warships hailed, halted and boarded the cargo ship.Mr. Trillo said the Spanish frigate Navarra fired three bursts of warning shots at the cargo vessel, which was believed to have been registered previously in Cambodia and named So San, after it tried to evade the warship. ''There was no option but to board the vessel,'' he said.Spanish snipers shot out metal cables crisscrossing the deck to allow a helicopter to hover overhead while seven armed marines were lowered down to the freighter. The freighter's crew offered no resistance. A second Spanish team then came aboard.A search of the ship, which had last docked in China, turned up ''15 complete Scud missiles, with 15 conventional, high-explosive warheads and 23 tanks of nitric acid,'' Mr. Trillo said. Eighty-five barrels of chemicals were also on board; they are still being identified.