Let’s say that this year things were normal, that we missed the news about hurricanes and earthquakes and wildfires, knew nothing about men sexually harassing actresses, Capitol Hill staffers, journalists and teenage Alabama girls, nothing about bombings and massacres and never-ending refugee crises, nothing about the creep toward nuclear war and the dangers of a warming planet, nothing of the lava flowing from our president’s Twitter account. What story would we come up with to explain why horror films grossed more than a billion dollars in 2017? Horror movies probably don’t need the world to be horrifying to be good. But when things are bad, the genre has a way of telling you they could be worse.There’s a difference, of course, between being scared for fun and actually fearing for your life, your country, the future of humanity. But the thrill of horror movies has always been their grasp on collective nightmares. Horror is effective partly because it’s never new. We’ve always seen boogeymen in the movies. Now we’re seeing boogeymen at the office, in the government, at the comedy club, doing the news. Some of what drew us to the genre this year might have been the urge to have our worst fears realized and to see whether the movies could upstage reality by reflecting it. Their darkness was a respite from our own.Led by the surprise blockbuster “Get Out,” the horror movies of 2017 offer up reliable pleasures — jump scares, creaky door hinges, lonely houses late at night — while playing with our expectations. “Get Out” invented mind-blowing metaphors for racism. “It” refashioned a shopworn fear of clowns so that their viciousness felt like news. In “Split,” a trio of young women trapped in a basement work together to get free of the basket case imprisoning them. A metaphor, perhaps? Even “Happy Death Day,” with its heroine who keeps dying until she figures out who’s killing her, seems right on time: Her horror movie might never end. And as bad as “Friend Request” is (very, very), it arrived with the tag line of the year: “Evil is trending.” Because, well, it is.Like the superhero genre, horror is somewhat allegorical, a way of giving shape to abstractions. Monsters, demons, ghosts, psycho killers, that homicidal clown all pop out of the Pandora’s box of the collective unconscious, as our tormentors and our proxies. For all the supernaturalism attached to horror, the real source of the terror is usually us — or folks more or less like us. Ghosts and zombies are nothing more than former people (a point made with metaphysical wit in David Lowery’s mopey art house film “A Ghost Story”). Regular living humans turn out to be capable of diabolical cruelty (the point of “Get Out”) and coldblooded self-preservation (the revelation of “It Comes at Night”).If horror movies were some of the year’s most illuminating, they were also some of the year’s cleverest and most fun. So we asked the actors who gave this year’s greatest performances — including Daniel Kaluuya, Nicole Kidman, Cynthia Nixon, Andy Serkis, Jake Gyllenhaal and Tiffany Haddish — to interpret the genre’s archetypes. Duck under a bedsheet, slip in a set of fangs, smear on some makeup, lose your mind and “Boo!”: You’ve captured 2017. But, of course, these performers had already done that, in movies that offered relief and enlightenment as well as terror. They played sensitive primates and brilliant poets, ordinary heroes and exceptional children, best friends and beguilers in movies that were funny, sad, sweet and revelatory. What’s truly scary about them is their talent, commitment and craft.