Mona (Natalie Press), the heroine of Pawel Pawlikowski's lovely "My Summer of Love," lives in a bleak, picturesque Yorkshire village with her older brother, Phil (Paddy Considine), an ex-convict who found religion in prison. Phil, on a mission to "bring love to this valley," holds prayer meetings in the shuttered pub his parents used to run and spends his spare time building an enormous crucifix out of scrap metal.Mona, in despair at what she sees as the loss of her brother, discovers a different, but in its own way no less mystical, kind of love. One day, after riding aimlessly around the hills on her motorless moped, she has a vision of a dark-haired girl riding a white horse. The girl turns out to be quite real, if somewhat enigmatic. Her name is Tamsin (the actress playing her is Emily Blunt), and she is whiling away the boarding school vacation in her parent's sprawling stone manor house.Out of a mixture of boredom, curiosity and intuitive sympathy, the two girls start spending time together. Their relationship moves from the sisterly to the sexual and beyond, into the kind of feverish, all-consuming intimacy that makes everything else seem insubstantial. Mr. Pawlikowski, who started out making documentaries before turning to features with "The Last Resort" (2001), renders the dreamy intensity of their connection with entrancing lyricism. His long tracking shots, tight close-ups and abrupt shifts in perspective bring you into a private world that is erotic and also a little scary.The scariness comes partly from the outside -- in particular from Phil's desire to save Mona, which seems both predatory and protective -- and from the volatility of Mona and Tamsin's contrasting temperaments. Mona confronts her unhappy prospects -- a future, as she puts it, of working in a slaughterhouse, getting fat and raising mentally defective children -- with grim, truculent wit. Tamsin, for her part, is more operatic, weeping over her sister's death and her father's philandering, and peppering her conversation with high-flown cultural allusions. "Have you read Nietzsche?" she asks Mona (who later goes home to tell Phil and his Bible group that God is dead.) "You'd like him. Also Freud."Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe differences of class, the potency of the northern English landscape -- and also, of course, the collision of sex and religion -- suggest that a more apt reference might be D.H. Lawrence. (The film's actual literary source is a novel by Helen Cross, adapted by Mr. Pawlikowski and Michael Wynne).