At the Rusty Knot at the western edge of Greenwich Village, two blenders work all night long and, on weekends, most of the afternoon, churning up fluffy snowdrifts of rum. In the two years since it opened, Forbidden Island has worn out three blenders.“They just didn’t handle the volume,” Mr. Cate said. “The ball bearings freeze up in there. Or the blade in the bottom of the cup freezes up or something, and they don’t run, and there’s this unsettling burning smell that comes out of the blender.”The Herculean blenders at those two bars — and granted, two bars is far from a national landslide — work so hard for an excellent reason. Bartenders might hate making blender cocktails, but the rest of us love drinking them.We loved them in the ’30s and ’40s, when the Waring blender washed ashore in Havana and was adopted by Constante Ribalagua, head barman at the Floridita. According to legend, Ribalagua made more than 10 million daiquiris. There is dispute about his precise technique, but for many drinks he seems to have used the blender almost as a cocktail shaker, pulsing the ingredients just long enough to chill them, but not so long as to turn the drink to slush.PhotoHe was known for filtering out even the tiniest shards of ice with a fine mesh sieve, and for the grapefruit-and-maraschino-liqueur daiquiri he served Hemingway. But Ribalagua had five versions of that cocktail, all worth a second look, particularly the Daiquiri No. 2, with its hint of oranges.We loved blender drinks in the ’50s, when the piña colada sailed north from San Juan and captured the mainland United States. It was taken up by the tiki bars and restaurants that spread across the country after World War II, inspired by the success of Trader Vic’s in Emeryville, Calif., and Don the Beachcomber in Hollywood.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyModern bartenders might embrace the blender if they had been around in those pioneer days.“Before they had blenders, they had blocks of ice, and they had four or five guys on a busy night, and all they would do is shave ice,” said Michael Buhen, an owner of the Tiki-Ti on Sunset Boulevard. Mr. Buhen’s father, Ray, worked for Don the Beachcomber in 1934, when it opened. “And then they invented the blender and you didn’t have to do that stuff anymore.”We might have loved them a little too much in the ’70s. At fern bars across the land, singles’ nights were lubricated by heaping goblets of sugary frozen drinks like the Mudslide and the Outstanding Alexander (Cognac, Grand Marnier, coffee liqueur, whipping cream, chocolate ice cream, vanilla ice cream).“If anything is going to turn you off a blender, it’s having one of those,” said Jeff Berry, the author of “Sippin’ Safari,” a book about lost tropical drink recipes and the people who created them. “When you put cream liqueurs in a blender ...,” he said. “I can feel myself falling off the stool right now.”PhotoIn the wake of that era’s lawless abandon, Mr. Cate said, “the whole world of exotic cocktails ended up having this bad reputation.” What went wrong, he and others say, is that the bartenders who were scooping rum raisin ice cream into their drinks forgot that there was a craft to this business.“If you’re going to make a blended drink, don’t take any shortcuts,” Mr. Maloney said. “You’re going to need good ingredients. You’re going to make simple syrup, you’re going to need to squeeze your juices fresh, you’re going to have to use bitters. It takes the same attention to detail, if not more.”Those were among Mr. Maloney’s tricks when, serving as a consultant, he devised the Rusty Knot’s piña colada recipe. For his Spiced Colada, he added lemon and lime to Captain Morgan’s spiced rum and positively drenched the drink in Angostura bitters. It was just the sort of crisp slap in the face that was needed to bring the piña colada back to life. The bar sells more of them than its owners ever imagined.“It’s insane,” said Taavo Somer, who dreamed up the Rusty Knot with another restaurateur, Ken Friedman. Mr. Friedman turns out to be one of the bar’s most enthusiastic consumers of frozen cocktails.“Some of these drinks are kind of dangerous,” Mr. Friedman said. “It tastes like you’re having Jamba Juice, and you’re not. I can’t count on one hand the number of people who’ve had to walk me home because I was having one of these Spiced Coladas.”PhotoFor home bartenders, it’s worth practicing a few basics before the rum takes effect. The blender can be put to several handy uses behind the bar. It will purée fruits like mangoes, peaches or strawberries, one of the best ways to get their ripe flavors into a cocktail. For drinks with egg whites, like the Pisco Sour, it can whip up a fast froth. (A dose of soda or sparkling wine also produces a nice thick head on a blender drink.)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn a technique called flash blending, a three-to-five-second pulse with cracked ice chills the drink quickly and efficiently. The ice can be strained out, Floridita-style, or the chunks and shards can be left in, which is typical of tropical cocktails. (Mr. Cate uses flash blending in a deeply refreshing tropical gin punch he calls Max’s Mistake.) The technique is worth remembering on summer days when the cooling effect of a cocktail would be nullified by the effort of mixing it in a shaker.Most difficult to master is the most common use of all, for the frozen cocktail. The right consistency is thick enough that it sticks a little to the side of the blender, but not so thick it needs to be ladled out with a spoon. Getting it just so requires the kind of heightened attentiveness other people reserve for their romantic relationships.“You’re chunky when you first go into the blender, then you’re smooth, and then in a couple of seconds you start to go back and the ice in your blender starts to refreeze again,” Mr. Cate said. “You’re watching for that point. Your eyes and your ears tell you when it’s there. If all of a sudden you hear the motor rev up higher, you know there’s an air bubble, and you have to stop and shake it down. It involves all the senses.”Mr. Maloney agreed, saying that it always takes longer than you think it will. “There’s an evolution of how the blender sounds,” he explained. “It starts out crunchy and crackly and you can hear the ice breaking down. Then it starts speeding up. Then it sounds nice and smooth. And then it sounds ‘wa-aa-wa-aa-wa-aa’ — the tone starts to go up and down. And that’s where you want to stop it, just after it’s done that for a little bit.”Ideally, a frozen drink should look like “powdered ice,” he said. “The whole point is to whip as much air in there and make the ice as fine as a white sand beach.”The craft of the blender, it turns out, may be as demanding as hand-carving cubes from huge slabs of ice, or home-brewing bitters out of rare South American roots and twigs, as they do in the hushed sanctums of the classic cocktail.Maybe, some day, those places will mix their kinds of drinks in a blender.“We have a regular at the Rusty Knot who comes in and orders a frozen Negroni,” said Mr. Maloney, referring to the cocktail of gin, vermouth and Campari. “You know what? It’s not nearly as bad as you think it’s going to be.”