E. F. Hutton Guilty in Bank Fraud The nation's fifth-largest brokerage firm pleaded guilty to an elaborate fraud that let the firm use as much as $250 million a day of bank funds without paying interest. It was acquired by Shearson Lehman Brothers in 1988. Drexel Concedes Guilt on Trading In the largest settlement ever of Federal securities law violations, Drexel Burnham Lambert pleaded guilty to six felony counts and paid $650 million. The settlement ended an inquiry into Drexel's relationship with Ivan F. Boesky, the Wall Street speculator who settled insider trading charges in 1986. Drexel filed for bankruptcy protection in 1990. Salomon Pays Fine to End Phony-Bid Inquiry Salomon Brothers agreed to pay $290 million to settle charges that the investment house had systematically submitted billions of dollars in phony bids in the Treasury auctions that finance the nation's public debt. Salomon was acquired by Travelers Group in 1998. Bankers Trust Pleads Guilty to Diverting Unclaimed Money Bankers Trust Company pleaded guilty to federal criminal charges that senior officers and employees had illegally diverted $19.1 million in unclaimed checks and other credits owed to customers into the bank's own books to enhance its financial performance. The bank agreed to pay $63.5 million in fines. Deutsche Bank had previously announced that it would acquire Bankers Trust. Andersen Guilty in Effort to Block Inquiry on Enron A federal jury convicted Arthur Andersen of obstruction of justice for impeding an investigation by securities regulators into the financial debacle at Enron. The verdict effectively ended the life of the 89-year-old firm. In 2005, the Supreme Court overturned the conviction in a Pyrrhic victory for Andersen's 85,000 former employees. A.I.G. Pays Fine to End Accounting Inquiry The American International Group agreed to pay $126 million in penalties and restitution and to allow an independent monitor to comb through the company's books. The settlement covered some sales of insurance and services that were used by companies to inflate the appearance of their financial strength and led to a $3.9 billion restatement. In 2008, the insurer received an unrelated $182 billion taxpayer-financed bailout. KPMG Pays Fine to End Tax Shelter Inquiry The accounting firm KPMG paid $456 million and accepted an outside monitor of its operations. In 2007, charges were dismissed against former employees of the accounting firm because a federal judge said the government had strong-armed KPMG into not paying the legal fees of defendants. UBS Opens Files to End Inquiry Under the terms of a so-called deferred prosecution agreement, the largest bank in Switzerland agreed to divulge the names of wealthy Americans whom the authorities suspected of using offshore accounts to evade taxes. The bank admitted conspiring to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and agreed to pay $780 million. Barclays Pays Fine to End Rate Inquiry Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to resolve accusations that it had tried to manipulate rates to benefit the bank's bottom line. The deal was struck with regulators in Washington and London and the Justice Department. Mortgage Inquiry of Goldman Sachs Ends The Justice Department said there was "not a viable basis to bring a criminal prosecution" against Goldman Sachs or its employees after a Congressional committee asked prosecutors to examine whether the bank had been involved in any illegal acts related to several mortgage deals. HSBC Pays Fine to End Laundering Case State and federal authorities decided against indicting HSBC in a money-laundering case over concerns that criminal charges could jeopardize one of the world's largest banks and destabilize the global financial system. Instead, HSBC announced that it had agreed to a record $1.92 billion settlement with authorities. UBS Unit Admits Guilt in Rate Case A Japanese subsidiary of the Swiss bank UBS pleaded guilty to one count of felony wire fraud as part of a broader settlement over interest rate manipulation. With federal prosecutors, British, Swiss and American regulators secured about $1.5 billion in fines. R.B.S. Unit Admits Guilt in Rate Case A Japanese unit of the Royal Bank of Scotland pleaded guilty to criminal wrongdoing for its role in an interest rate manipulation scheme. American and British authorities struck a combined $612 million settlement with the bank. JPMorgan Pays Fine to End Madoff Case The bank reached $2 billion in criminal and civil settlements with federal authorities who suspected that it ignored signs of Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. Rather than extracting a guilty plea, prosecutors struck a so-called deferred-prosecution agreement. Credit Suisse Pleads Guilty in Tax Evasion Case Federal prosecutors demanded that Credit Suisse’s parent company plead guilty to helping thousands of American account holders hide their wealth and evade taxes. As part of a deal with the Justice Department, the Swiss bank agreed to plead to one count of conspiring to aid tax evasion. Credit Suisse will also pay about $2.6 billion in penalties and hire an independent monitor for up to two years. BNP Admits Guilt in Sanctions Case State and federal authorities announced a criminal case against France’s biggest bank for transferring billions of dollars on behalf of Sudan and other countries blacklisted by the United States. BNP agreed to plead guilty to criminal charges and pay an $8.9 billion penalty. Commerzbank Pays Fine to Resolve Array of Charges One of Germany’s largest lenders, accused of sending tainted money through the American financial system, agreed to pay nearly $1.5 billion and dismiss some of its employees. No fewer than eight regulatory and prosecutorial offices, in addition to the F.B.I. in New York, took aim at the bank, though it still avoided an indictment. 5 Banks to Plead Guilty in Currency and Interest Rate Cases The banks agreed to pay about $5.6 billion and plead guilty to multiple crimes. The Justice Department forced four of the banks — Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Barclays and the Royal Bank of Scotland — to plead guilty to antitrust violations in the foreign exchange market. A fifth bank, UBS, will also plead guilty to manipulating a benchmark rate.