Mr. Tarantino shoots the elliptical curves of Ms. Thurman's face in extreme close-up, his wide shots emphasize her tall, willowy frame, and at one point the camera lingers on her long, strangely shaped toes for what seems like an entire reel. A title at the end informs us that the movie is ''based on The Bride, a character created by Q and U'' -- as in Quentin and Uma. In the movie, the two of them, one in front of the camera and one behind it, seem as inseparable as those two codependant letters.It must be said that this infatuation takes some disturbing forms. The opening shot, in black-and-white, lingers on Ms. Thurman's bloody, beaten face. Her character, known by various aliases (her real name, for reasons that may become clear in Volume 2, is bleeped out whenever it is uttered), is attacked on her wedding day and left for dead by a team of assassins called the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad (or DiVAS). They have been hired by Bill (David Carradine, whose face is never shown), who was once the Bride's lover and whose child she may be carrying. After four years in a coma, she wakes up and sets out to take revenge on her assailants, writing a ''to kill'' list with their names on it.Bill's name is last, and since this is only the first episode, the title's imperative, which sounds like Dr. Seuss gone haywire, remains unfulfilled. Not that there is any shortage of killing. As is his habit, Mr. Tarantino presents the action out of sequence, so that the first person (Copperhead, played by Vivica A. Fox) to be dispatched is the second one on the list. This may be a tongue-in-cheek nod to a venerable Hollywood convention: the black character dies first. Copperhead lives in a tidy suburban house, which she and the Bride proceed to demolish in a frenzy of hand-to-hand combat interrupted by the arrival of a school bus carrying Copperhead's young daughter.Later -- that is, earlier -- our heroine will force an elaborate showdown with Cottonmouth (Lucy Liu), who has ascended from assassin-for-hire to Tokyo gangland leader. Ms. Liu once again demonstrates her agility; she also shows off her linguistic ability and her brains (literally). Michael Madsen and Daryl Hannah, the remaining DiVAS members, will be dealt with in Volume 2.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.It will inevitably be said, in Mr. Tarantino's defense, that his violence is fundamentally cartoonish. (The actual cartoon inserted in the middle of the picture, to provide background on one of the Bride's would-be assassins, may be bloodier than anything else in it, which is saying a lot.) But he undermines this argument with sequences that cross the line between jolting and sickening. While the Bride is in the hospital, a cretinous orderly named Buck rents out her unconscious body for sex; when she wakes up, she kills Buck's latest customer by chewing off part of his face, and then takes care of Buck by slamming his head in a metal door.Compared with this, the long, intricate climax, during which the Bride takes on 88 yakuza fighters and litters a Tokyo nightclub with their severed limbs and writhing trunks, feels as insouciant and elegant as a show-stopping musical number. Which, in essence, it is, staged with the assistance of the martial-arts maestro Yuen Wo-Ping.The sordid creepiness that occasionally seeps into ''Kill Bill'' makes you wonder what Mr. Tarantino is trying to do, and whether he is entirely in control of his own imagination. Other parts of the movie are notable for their dullness, especially an interminable chapter during which the Bride purchases a sword from a reluctant craftsman played by the Japanese action legend Sonny Chiba. The point, aside from allowing an excursion into mystical Shaolin mumbo jumbo and displaying Ms. Thurman in a cute American tourist jeans-and-T-shirt ensemble, seems to be to revel in the sheer presence of Mr. Chiba. Check it out, Mr. Tarantino seems to be saying, Sonny Chiba's in my movie. How cool is that?Way too cool? Not cool enough? As I said, it depends. The movie-geek in-jokes are sometimes amusing and sometimes annoying. The English dialogue is purposely stilted, often sounding like badly translated subtitles (''I have no wish to kill you before the eyes of your daughter,'' the Bride says to Copperhead, before doing just that). When the characters speak Japanese, the English subtitles show a similar awkwardness (''Whom in Okinawa made you this steel?'').Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe hurtling incoherence of the story may also be, at least partly, a tribute to its sources, in which sense was more often than not trumped by sensation. Will the loose ends and cliffhangers that proliferate in Volume 1 be satisfactorily resolved in Volume 2? Will anyone outside the hard core of Mr. Tarantino's fans really care? Whom knows.''Kill Bill: Vol. 1'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). It has shootings, stabbings, beatings, beheadings, disembowelings, amputations, mutilations, eye-gougings, slicings, choppings, bitings and a spanking. Also some naughty words.KILL BILLVol. 1Written and directed by Quentin Tarantino; director of photography, Robert Richardson; edited by Sally Menke; music by the RZA; martial-arts adviser, Yuen Wo-Ping; fight choreographer, Sonny Chiba; production designers, Yohei Tanada and David Wasco; produced by Lawrence Bender; released by Miramax Films. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is rated R.WITH: Uma Thurman (The Bride/Black Mamba), David Carradine (Bill), Lucy Liu (O-Ren Ishii/Cottonmouth), Daryl Hannah (Elle Driver/California Mountain Snake), Vivica A. Fox (Vernita Green/Copperhead), Michael Madsen (Budd/Sidewinder), Michael Parks (Sheriff), Sonny Chiba (Hattori Hanzo) and Chiaki Kuriyama (Go Go Yubari).