“All of Trump’s recent mistakes will be wiped away if the convention coherently frames this race as ‘change vs. more of the same,’ ” Mr. Schmidt said. “The biggest threat to that could be Trump’s own actions.”Mr. Trump’s management of the convention has not been reassuring to many Republicans. While he said in the interview that Cleveland would be “overbooked with speakers,” his list of speakers came out only on Wednesday night — a week later than originally planned — and he has so alienated leading Republicans and rising party stars that many of them, from the two former presidents Bush to various Senate candidates, plan to stay away.At one point, Mr. Trump even said that Mr. Cruz, a Texas senator, and Mr. Kasich, the Ohio governor, would not be invited to speak at the convention unless they endorsed him. Mr. Cruz, after a meeting with Mr. Trump last week, is now expected to speak; Mr. Kasich has indicated that he won’t be spending time inside the convention hall — an unheard-of snub for a governor of the state hosting his own party’s convention.At his office at Trump Tower in Manhattan, Mr. Trump has been hands-on about the four-day event — calling up political allies and friends to invite them to speak — but also delegating organizing duties to top aides who already have enormous responsibilities, given the relatively small number of campaign staff members.“Trump is a guy who sees he has three weeks to plan a convention, but thinks he only needs the last week to pull the whole thing together,” said Newt Gingrich, the former speaker and a possible running mate. “He’s still new to all this, but at the same time wants a lot of control over how the convention will work.”Two Trump advisers declined to predict how the nominee would react to the day-to-day proceedings and media coverage of the convention, though one of them expressed concern that Mr. Trump might say something or unleash a Twitter post that undercuts a unifying message or roils Republicans in the arena. They described planning for the convention as somewhat haphazard, saying that Mr. Trump’s focus on lining up speakers had been hot or cold on any given day, and that he had not spent much time making calls to convention speakers to strategize about their remarks and encourage them.