Sprinkled throughout are some pretty fantastic love affairs and plenty of gossip. Dressed in a suede miniskirt, the teenage Buck shamelessly flirts with Tom Wolfe, on assignment for an article that would become “The Life and Hard Times of a Teenage London Society Girl.” After dropping out of Sarah Lawrence, Buck returns to Europe, where she’s eventually hired by Women’s Wear Daily, first as its correspondent in London and then in Rome. She escapes an abusive boyfriend and falls hopelessly in love with Donald Sutherland, who is filming Bernardo Bertolucci’s “1900” in Emilia-Romagna. He uses the name Attila for the messages he leaves and sends dozens of violets. “Don’t write about me,” Sutherland asks after learning she keeps a diary. “I’ll never,” she replies. When the affair ends, Buck is taken in by Anjelica Huston, a childhood friend, at the house Huston shares with Jack Nicholson in Los Angeles. For a birthday present, Huston presents her with a crystal ball, and when Nicholson explains, “It’s to see what you’re going to do next,” Buck realizes that “I’d overstayed my welcome.” A brief marriage to the writer John Heilpern ends with an affair with the governor of California, Jerry Brown. “You really think people only do things to become famous?” he asks. “Isn’t that why you became governor?” she counters.ImageNewhouse’s offer to run Paris Vogue comes across as a difficult one for Buck to accept. She’s at the height of her career as a magazine journalist, writing profiles for Vanity Fair and serving as American Vogue’s film critic. She’s a writer, not an editor. But her parents are elderly and short of funds, so she suits up (in Jean Muir, a British fashion designer Buck describes as making “priestly” tunics) to face off with the French staff. She’s treated as a Yankee interloper: On her first day, her office is missing a chair, and no one can be bothered to help her find one. Eventually, though, trust is earned and Paris becomes another playground. She takes Toni Morrison shoe shopping; she rides bikes at Versailles with Charlotte Rampling.Buck is most charming when she’s revealing her fumbles — the kind all editors in chief must make and never discuss, except at dinner parties. Like her first issue of Paris Vogue, which is dedicated to the Frenchwoman or, as the cover reads, “La Femme Française.” Years later, an art director reveals that it was a dog whistle for the National Front. “It was as bad as if you’d put the words ‘National Pride’ on the cover,” he says, laughing. There are also slights hurled at former colleagues. The photographer Mario Testino “endlessly declared, ‘I am Vogue,’ but try as I might, I couldn’t understand what the particular magic of his bright pictures might be.” The editor Carine Roitfeld’s style “relied, as far as I could see, on little more than straight hair, tight skirts, bare legs and high heels, but her influence on fashion was decisive.”Buck’s decisions come across as impulsive, as if the life she leads were not the sum total of her decisions but something beyond her control. Her instincts are often rewarded, and her circle of famous friends can feel, at times, limitless. But she doesn’t come across as an entirely reliable narrator. This is forgivable when describing the superficial world of fashion, which relies on a little embellishment here and there, but it’s more difficult when considering her profile of Asma al-Assad for American Vogue.Published in March 2011, the magazine’s “Power Issue,” “A Rose in the Desert” offers a charming portrait of the wife of the Syrian president: “Asma al-Assad is glamorous, young and very chic — the freshest and most magnetic of first ladies.” Buck tries to explain how she ended up praising the Assads: “My old friend Christian Louboutin had bought himself a small palace in Aleppo and knew the Assads. ‘For dictators, they really care about their people,’ he told me. The line was flip; but I’d called a shoe designer, not a State Department official. Within the limits of the glossy view of life, it was a good enough endorsement.” But, as readers were quick to point out, Assad’s husband was using violence to resist mounting protests against his government, violence that would later descend into civil war. The article caused an uproar and was quietly removed from the Vogue website. It’s not difficult to believe that the magazine’s editors would make Buck a scapegoat (she was given no further assignments, and her contract wasn’t renewed), but her defense seems flimsy. She may have been set up to look like “an apologist for a tyrant,” but she doesn’t appear to have done her homework either.