But while progress on the infrastructure has been significant, residents have been allowed home for only a few days. Restoration, thus, has come in baby steps — at least for those with homes left to restore.So the trucks and vans with the stickers that allow access to the island — Chicago Water and Fire Restoration, Samaritan’s Purse Disaster Relief, Lombardo’s Roofing and Exteriors — tell the tale. They are here not to rebuild houses, as that will come later, but to preserve, decontaminate, stabilize or demolish existing ones so the rebuilding can start later on.It was not supposed to be this way. On Memorial Day 2011, Mr. Pedano and Mr. Rizzuto decided to bid on a bungalow at 10 Fourth Avenue that had been occupied by the same family for 50 years and had just come on the market. They closed that summer, on Aug. 23, the day people ran in terror off the beach as a result of the rare East Coast earthquake. A few days later, the house survived Hurricane Irene unscathed.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.In May 2012, they began converting the bungalow to a 3,500-square-foot, 3-story, 2-family house. The idea was a place with the look of Cape Cod and the feel of Uncle Mike’s Seaside Inn and Spa for a small army of relatives, friends and neighbors. “This was Club Med,” he said.In addition to the damage to the house, Mr. Pedano lost a $75,000 dump truck, a $65,000 track hoe and $40,000 in tools. Insurance will not cover any of the work on the outside of the house, like the $25,000 in patio work that was blown away, and his $250,000 in flood insurance will not cover all of his damage. “It’s going to be ugly for a while,” he said.Sue Notte across the street came over, and they compared notes.“They’re doing a great job on the big picture, but with all the little things every homeowner needs to do, we just don’t know,” she said. “My homeowner’s hasn’t been here. My structural engineer hasn’t been here yet. My FEMA hasn’t been here yet. I feel like we’re doing a little bit, but we’re not sure if we’re doing what we should be doing.”They will know a lot more this week. The township, following Gov. Chris Christie’s lead, has encouraged residents to rebuild their homes and has said they will be allowed to rebuild within the same footprint, even if the house does not comply with local zoning provisions. But the Federal Emergency Management Agency is releasing updated flood elevation maps that, especially for property owners near the beach, could mean some combination of higher flood insurance premiums, lower insurance coverage or the expense, perhaps $30,000, of raising their property. For some people, that could make rebuilding unaffordable.But for now, there is ruined insulation to be ripped out, plumbing to be winterized, windows to be boarded up. The sign spray-painted in front of Mr. Pedano’s house reads: WWPIT. It stands for We Will Put It Together.His house in Fairfield was flooded out last year by Hurricane Irene. He built it back and said he would build this one back, too. He said the house might be habitable by Memorial Day. If not, then July 4 or Labor Day. If not this year, next year.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“This is only temporary,” Uncle Mike said. “We will be back.”