Even as late as 1837, the Philadelphia cookbook writer Eliza Leslie told housewives in her ''Directions for Cookery'' to make a ''country syllabub'' of cider, wine and nutmeg ''just before milking time.'' ''Then,'' she directed, ''let it be taken to the cow, and have about three pints milked into it.''The action of milking provided the froth, and the acidic action of wine on warm raw milk provided a slight thickening into curds. Originally, the curds were eaten with a spoon from the top of a two-handled syllabub pot, equipped with a spout for drinking the liquid beneath.Earlier still, by replacing milk with thick cream and by whipping it with birch whisks, wooden chocolate mills or tin churns, housewives found that the whipped froth would hold its shape overnight, or several nights. Country syllabub was thus refined into ''Everlasting Syllabub,'' as England's 18th-century taste-maker Hannah Glasse called it, and ceramic pots were soon banished for costly glasses.The vogue for frothy syllabubs spilled over into related desserts of thickened creams and beaten egg whites to make ''snows,'' ''floating islands,'' Naples biscuits (now called macaroons) and Savoy cakes (sponge cakes or ladyfingers). In 1796 Mrs. Glasse helped set the style for two centuries of lavish Southern dessert tables by arranging her pastel-hued syllabub glasses around bowls of floating islands, molded jellies and jams, creams and biscuits, candied ginger and preserves, within a ring of lighted candles.Crowning such spreads is the diadem of English desserts, now a Southern classic: the trifle, which, of course, is hardly that. Syllabub was the inherent ingredient, the gilding on a glorious excess of sponge cake or macaroons sprinkled with brandy, layered with jam and topped with almond-thickened custard.Only later did Southerners begin to call this charming confusion ''Tipsy Parson'' or ''Squire,'' as if to suggest that however ladylike its decor, the trifle packed a wallop suitable for gentlemen.Trifles and syllabubs carry the soft accent of the South, but let Yankees beware of such softness. Mrs. Gribble, pumping her great-grandmother's churn to produce syllabub for 150 friends at a cocktail buffet, likes to call Southern women ''iron butterflies.''The term could apply to syllabub itself, the froth that binds Southern families to their steadfast traditions. Where but in the South would one find someone such as the late Col. John A. May of Aiken County, S.C., composing a poem to celebrate his family's syllabub churn? And if the house caught fire And things began to burn, The First I'd try to rescue Would be my syllabub churn.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn the following recipe for Country Syllabub, I've added yogurt to milk or cream to thicken and slightly sour the froth. Both of these syllabubs will keep several days in the refrigerator and improve in flavor. If you don't like the separation of whipped cream on top and liquor beneath, whisk the syllabub again just before serving. A COUNTRY SYLLABUB 1 cup apple cider 1/4 cup Calvados or other brandy 1/4 cup sugar 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1/4 cup yogurt 1 teaspoon nutmeg, freshly grated 2 cups milk or cream 1. Put all ingredients in blender and blend until frothy. 2. Pour into parfait or Sherry glasses and let stand 2 or 3 hours at room temperature. Yield: 4 servings. AN EVERLASTING SYLLABUB Rind and juice of 1 lemon 1/2 cup white wine 1/2 cup medium-dry Madeira or Sherry or brandy 1/4 cup sugar, or to taste 1 teaspoon nutmeg, freshly grated 2 cups heavy cream. 1. Grate the lemon rind finely, squeeze the juice and mix both with the white wine, Madeira and sugar. 2. Add nutmeg and beat in the heavy cream gradually with an electric beater or wire whisk. Beat until the cream forms soft peaks, but don't overbeat or the cream will become too dense. 3. Spoon the mixture into parfait or Sherry glasses and chill or serve at room temperature. If you want the cream and liquor to separate, make syllabub several hours ahead. 4. When ready to serve, garnish each glass with a sprig of rosemary, mint, lavender or a twist of lemon. Yield: 4 servings.