One modest, unexpected bright spot could be found in the budget coming out of Washington: a 46 percent increase in funding for capital projects, about $160 million more, and more money for operations as well, according to estimates by the housing authority. Still, the needs at hundreds of sprawling complexes — some $20 billion in repairs — are towering.Mr. de Blasio named Stanley Brezenoff, a longtime city official and the mayor’s go-to fixer for problematic agencies, as the interim chair, though he will not start until June, several weeks after Ms. Olatoye is to depart. But changes at the top may not result in changes at the ground level, where tenants struggle with mold and broken heating systems, even as high crime rates have eased.“There’s no magic button to push here,” Mr. Brezenoff said. “I can promise the best possible effort to make the best use of existing resources.”He joins a top-level staff that has seen sustained turnover.Of the 32 senior jobs, a figure that includes all positions from vice president up to chair, about two-thirds are vacant, have acting appointees or were filled in the last year, according to an analysis of the agency’s organizational chart.As Ms. Olatoye was asked about the high-level departures and vacancies, Mr. de Blasio turned and muttered to her. “Some of that turnover is good” she said, appearing to repeat what the mayor said to her off mic a moment before.Ms. Olatoye said she had stayed on until now in part to help with efforts to negotiate a settlement with federal prosecutors. In 2016, the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan opened a wide-ranging inquiry into conditions in public housing and paperwork that falsely certified lead-paint inspections. One outcome of the negotiations could be a federal monitor for the authority.There is already a court-appointed special master for mold. Last month, federal housing officials began requiring the housing authority to get approval to spend federal money, because of the false lead-paint filings. Mr. Cuomo last week ordered the city to choose an independent monitor to oversee new state spending on public housing.