Asked about a 12 percent uptick in shootings in New York City so far this year, Mr. de Blasio pointed to a more than 3 percent drop in overall crime and added that the city was down 26 murders compared with last year.Image Mayor Bill de Blasio, with Brig. Gen. Loree Sutton on Monday, named her as the veterans affairs commissioner. Credit Hiroko Masuike/The New York TimesMr. de Blasio also addressed a march planned for Saturday and led by the Rev. Al Sharpton and others to bring attention to aggressive policing and the homicide death of Eric Garner, who died after he was placed in a chokehold by a police officer last month. The mayor said there would be extra security at the demonstration but he likened it to what he described as an effective, silent march against stop-and-frisk a few years ago.“It was an absolutely peaceful demonstration that got its message out and there was absolute coordination between the police and the protesters,” Mr. de Blasio said. “That’s a model of how we do things in New York City.”Ms. Mark-Viverito, who was in Puerto Rico over the weekend to officiate a same-sex wedding for an aide in her office, did not comment further on Monday. Eric Koch, her spokesman, said in an email that she was “going to let her tweets + the positive reaction stand for themselves today.”Her announcement came less than a week after the city began an advertising campaign, including subway ads aimed at parents who have been slow to get their children vaccinated against HPV or have failed to get them the recommended full three doses.The campaign, which is in Spanish and English, is timed to coincide with back-to-school doctors’ visits. “We want parents to ask pediatricians about it,” said Dr. Mary Bassett, the city’s health commissioner.Although the vaccine reduces a child’s risk of certain HPV-related cancers by up to 99 percent, experts say the stigma surrounding a sexually transmitted virus and the process of getting three doses has contributed to poor participation. According to the city health department, 40 percent of girls and 22 percent of boys ages 13 to 17 are fully vaccinated.