A telling moment came recently when Hollande, in talking about Sarkozy, used the phrase “un sale mec” — roughly a nasty piece of work. How he used the term has been disputed. It does not matter. The language provided an insight into his subconscious and that of a wide swathe of the French bourgeoisie. (Hollande is a bourgeois of the left).PhotoTo them Sarkozy, who went to the wrong schools, is forever the outsider, the upstart, the usurper — a “dirty” climber blinded by ambition and unworthy of incarnating the French state through the Fifth Republic’s highest office. Not for nothing is French rich in words — arriviste, parvenu — for characters, like Balzac’s Rastignac, who cut through social barriers to the summit.So many in France want to see the back of Sarkozy. They dream of a comeuppance for this man of preternatural agitation , but then think: Oh no! Not the left with its indecision, its stale slogans, its colossal “immobilisme” that has somehow preserved class struggle as a tenet when most of the European left — like the German — moved on decades ago.(The French left has a lot to answer for. It should not escape anyone’s attention that the current strength of the far right in the form of Marine Le Pen’s National Front owes much to the migration of all those ex-Communists whose adoration of Stalin never faded.)Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.I mentioned Sarkozy’s courage. I’d say it’s what makes him the most interesting politician in Europe . But before that my caveats: When he panders to Le Pen’s right — the appalling treatment of the Roma, the wrongheaded dismissal of Turkey ’s E.U. candidacy, the ever more restrictive immigration policy — he’s at his worst. The Napoleonic ego can also get irksome, although his glittering wife Carla Bruni has reined in its sharper expressions.In the end what’s unforgivable in a politician is ego and ambition that allow no greater cause than self. That’s not the case with Sarkozy. He’s a doer and taboo-breaker — bringing France back into the integrated command of NATO (and so enabling the successful Libyan mission); declaring that love of America is O.K.; reforming universities and the pension system against huge resistance; taking on the worthy Libyan cause where Jacques Chirac and Mitterrand would have waved it away (and where Germany shamefully did.)But Sarkozy’s biggest achievement has been with respect to Germany in the euro crisis. The crisis came as Germany turned away from European idealism — exhausted by the financial effort of unification, angered by Mediterranean freeloaders, satisfied by its postwar redemption, bent more on material gain than great moral causes (bowing to Vladimir Putin , shunning Libyan freedom fighters). Faced by all this, and an Angela Merkel who had privately compared him to Mr. Bean, Sarkozy did not turn away in a huff. He persevered.Merkel was reluctantly persuaded that the cause of Europe overrode her citizens’ Euro-bile. The effort has been faltering, countless mistakes made. But the quiet recent moves of the European Central Bank to flood the market with euros and in effect act as a lender of last resort — contrary to the treaty and despite protracted German resistance — reflect above all an enormous French effort to bring Germany around. Interest rates for Spanish and Italian bonds are falling, panic receding.Score one — and a big one — for Sarkozy. Leadership matters.