Salt and freshly ground pepper2 eggs2 to 3 teaspoons low-fat milk2 teaspoons extra virgin olive oil1/2 ounce feta cheese, crumbled1. In a bowl, toss the chopped blanched beet greens with the garlic, vinegar and salt and pepper to taste.Photo2. Break the eggs into another bowl and beat with a fork or a whisk until eggs are frothy. Whisk in salt and pepper to taste and 2 to 3 teaspoons milk.3. Heat an 8-inch nonstick omelet pan over medium-high heat. Add 2 teaspoons olive oil. Hold your hand an inch or two above the pan, and when it feels hot, pour the eggs into the middle of the pan, scraping every last bit into the pan with a rubber spatula. Swirl the pan to distribute the eggs evenly over the surface. Shake the pan gently, tilting it slightly with one hand while lifting up the edges of the omelet with the spatula in your other hand, to let the eggs run underneath during the first minute or two of cooking.4. As soon as the eggs are set on the bottom, sprinkle the beet greens over the middle of the egg “pancake” and top with the feta. Next, jerk the pan quickly away from you then back toward you so that the omelet folds over onto itself. If you don’t like your omelet runny in the middle (I do), jerk the pan again so that the omelet folds over once more. Cook for a minute or two longer. Tilt the pan and roll the omelet out onto a plate.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Another way to make a 2-egg omelet is to flip it over before adding the filling. Do this with the same motion, jerking the pan quickly away from you and then back toward you, but lift your hand slightly as you begin to jerk the pan back toward you. The omelet will flip over onto the other side, like a pancake. Place the filling in the middle. Use your spatula to fold one side over, then the other side, and roll the omelet out of the pan.To blanch beet greens: Bring a pot of water to a boil while you wash and stem the beet greens. Rinse in 2 changes of water to rid the leaves of sand. When the water comes to a boil, salt generously and add the greens. Blanch for 1 to 2 minutes, until just tender, and transfer to a bowl of cold water. Drain, squeeze out excess water, and chop. To steam the greens, place them in a steamer basket above 1 inch of boiling water. Cover and steam for 2 minutes or until wilted. Rinse and squeeze out excess water.Yield: Serves 1Advance preparation: The blanched beet greens will keep for 4 to 5 days in a covered bowl in the refrigerator.Nutritional information per serving: 275 calories; 7 grams saturated fat; 3 grams polyunsaturated fat; 11 grams monounsaturated fat; 385 milligrams cholesterol; 4 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram dietary fiber; 369 milligrams sodium (does not include salt to taste); 16 grams protein.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMartha Rose Shulman is the author of “The Very Best of Recipes for Health.”