A lawyer representing the family, Maksim Maksimovich, said the former president had not been involved in improper business dealings connected with the base and described the Kyrgyz investigation as politically motivated.Pentagon officials say the two businesses, Manas International Services Ltd. and Aalam Services Ltd., were used not because of their connections but because they were the only ones with facilities to transport and store fuel at the air base in Bishkek, the capital. Though the Akayevs may have benefited, the officials said, Pentagon rules do not bar contracts with companies that have ties to a foreign leader."There is nothing per se improper about relatives of a foreign leader having an ownership interest in a company that is a U.S. government contractor or subcontractor," said Lana Hampton, a spokesman for the Defense Energy Support Center, the Pentagon agency that oversees the contracts. She would not address whether Pentagon officials had known of the Akayev family ties to the two fuel companies.Scott Horton, an American lawyer and an expert on Central Asia, said the Pentagon's handling of the matter had damaged its standing in Kyrgyzstan. "The Pentagon was doing contracts that they knew were going to benefit the ruling family," said Mr. Horton, who said the Kyrgyz government had informally consulted him when the base was established. "It was very clear that this was an effort to secure the support of the old regime. But it had the exact opposite effect that the Pentagon wanted it to have."The current president, Kurmanbek Bakiyev, is insisting that the United States make retroactive lease payments of $80 million and help recover the contract money that he says should have gone to the Kyrgyz government -- not to the Akayevs and their supporters. Lease payments since 2002 have been only $2 million a year, the Kyrgyz complain.But Pentagon officials say the demand amounts to asking them to pay twice for use of the base for the last four years. "Any possible misappropriation of funds is an internal Kyrgyz matter," a Pentagon spokesman, Bryan Whitman, said in a statement.An internal F.B.I. report given to Kyrgyz prosecutors in September found that the two businesses might have been involved in money-laundering through accounts at Citibank in New York and the Dutch bank ABM Amro. The companies also had transactions with "a myriad of suspicious U.S. shell companies" associated with Mr. Akayev, his family and arms traffickers, the report said.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyA copy of the document was given to The New York Times by someone who wanted the details made public but was not authorized to release them.The F.B.I., whose involvement in the investigation has not been previously reported, began looking into Akayev family assets this summer after Kyrgyzstan's new leaders requested the bureau's help.In one of many large transactions at American banks, Saadat Akayev, the former president's daughter, made "a series of cash deposits on successive days totaling $79,500" in 2003, the F.B.I. report says, describing Ms. Akayev as a target of the Kyrgyz investigation.Her father, in exile in Moscow with much of his family, did not respond to requests through intermediaries to be interviewed.According to Kyrgyz prosecution documents, the Aalam company was formed in an illegal privatization of refueling operations at the government-owned airport in Bishkek in the late 1990's. Manas was started later as a competitor, the documents say. After the Americans arrived, the companies were paid tens of millions of dollars as subcontractors. The proceeds were transferred improperly to overseas bank accounts, the documents say.The Pentagon's dealings with Manas and Aalam began in late 2001. With combat under way in Afghanistan, the military needed up to 250,000 gallons of jet fuel a day.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Defense Department fuel experts who arrived in Bishkek found Manas and Aalam refueling jetliners there. But the companies' facilities and equipment were in such poor shape that they could not meet the military's needs, the team concluded, according to a Pentagon document.They ended up as suppliers anyway. Lacking its own facilities in Bishkek, Avcard, a Maryland aviation fuel company, proposed using Manas and Aalam as its only subcontractors there, said Warren E. Boin Jr., a company vice president.The Pentagon awarded the Maryland company the contract in early December 2001 without soliciting any other bidders, documents show. Kathryn Fantasia, a Defense Energy Support Center official, said in an interview that Avcard had been brought in because it had promised to meet the military's needs, using Manas and Aalam or other suppliers.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn practice, the Kyrgyz companies made all of the fuel purchases, Mr. Boin said, noting that his company did not even have a full-time employee in Bishkek. There were occasional problems with the quality of jet fuel and shortages in some months, but over all the companies performed adequately, he said.Soon after the fuel deliveries began, Avcard's president, Linda Kropp, said she had learned that Aydar Akayev, the president's son, was a part owner of Manas. The general manager of Manas boasted about the Akayevs' involvement, she said. She then asked about Aalam, where an executive told her that Adil Toiganbayev, the president's son-in-law, was one of the owners, she said.The discovery led her to call Ms. Fantasia and Deborah L. Vankleef, the Defense Energy Support Center officials responsible for the fuel contract, to report that the president's family members were benefiting from the deal. "They said they were aware of it from other sources and there really wasn't anything they could do about it," Ms. Kropp said.Ms. Hampton, the agency's spokeswoman, said the two women did not recall that conversation.Mr. Maksimovich, the lawyer, denied that Aydar Akayev owned Manas, though he said, "The owners of the company were his friends." Mr. Toiganbayev could not be reached for comment.The Pentagon said it paid Avcard $31.7 million in 2002 for fuel. Company officials would not disclose how much it gave Manas and Aalam.In early 2003, after the Pentagon reopened the contract for bidding, Avcard was replaced by Red Star Enterprises Ltd., a London-based company. Chuck Squires, a former American Army lieutenant colonel hired to handle the contract, said he was introduced to Aydar Akayev and Adil Toiganbayev when he took over at the Bishkek base in 2003.Over the next three years Red Star received $175 million from the Pentagon for fuel, the Defense Energy Support Center said. The company paid Manas more than $87 million and Aalam more than $32 million for deliveries from 2003 to this year, according to company records provided to the Pentagon.But the Akayevs' ties to Manas and Aalam ended abruptly in March when Mr. Akayev and his family fled the country after crowds protesting corruption and electoral fraud seized the presidential palace. Executives at the two companies said in interviews that the ownership was soon changed to exclude the former president's relatives.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe fuel deals have become a liability with Kyrgyzstan's new leaders at a time when the American military needs the base more than ever. Uzbekistan, where the United States also opened an air base to support operations in Afghanistan, ordered the base there closed in July after the State Department joined calls for an international investigation of the violent suppression of antigovernment demonstrations.Loss of the Uzbek base has required the American military to shift more air operations to Kyrgyzstan.The F.B.I. agreed to assist in tracing the fuel proceeds overseas, but Pentagon officials have rebuffed Kyrgyz demands for retroactive lease payments for the airport. "The U.S. has said it would discuss these back payments," Ambassador Sydykova said. "However, to date the Pentagon has refused to honor these commitments."Kyrgyz officials, noting that they are under pressure from Russia and other countries in the region to kick out the American military, say they could still ask the Americans to leave."We made an agreement between the governments of the United States and Kyrgyzstan to find out about all the sales, all the affairs of Aalam Services and Manas," said Miroslav D. Niyazov, head of Kyrgyzstan's national security council. "There is a basis to believe there were serious embezzlements and harmful misdeeds."