Foreign journalists got a glimpse of Rason when they accompanied Chinese businesspeople on a recent tour. On the surface, Rason is an unlikely site for a boomtown. It is a three-hour drive on a rutted dirt road from the Chinese border. In the surrounding countryside, green with cornfields and pine trees, men ride horses and ox carts while women dry cuttlefish on rooftops. The area, home to 200,000, suffers from blackouts. In the town center, bicyclists navigate dirt tracks. There are few cars, stores or restaurants.But Rason’s port remains ice-free, a rarity in Northeast Asia, and officials here see shipping as a pillar of economic growth, along with seafood processing and tourism. The say they also want foreign-run assembly plants and high-technology factories. As inducements, they say they would offer tax breaks, full foreign control and minimum monthly wages set at $80 per worker, lower than in China.“The Rason government will do our best to provide favorable conditions for investment,” said Hwang Chol-nam, the vice mayor in charge of economic development. “Please tell the world.”PhotoThe central question is whether the ideologies of the current leader, Kim Jong-il, and senior officials in the Korean Workers’ Party will allow for long-term reforms to spur economic growth. Some analysts say Mr. Kim’s visit to Rason in December 2009 was a signal that this town, at least, should embrace experimentation.More than any other country, North Korea runs on a command economy that has limited influence from market forces. Blunders and misjudgments led to mass starvation in the 1990s, and a currency revaluation in 2009 wiped out savings. The nation’s per-capita gross domestic product is one of the lowest.The country has also been hit by United Nations sanctions aimed at forcing Mr. Kim to abandon his nuclear weapons program. And South Korea, an important aid provider and trading partner throughout much of the last decade, has toughened its position on North Korea since 2008, because of domestic politics and conflicts with the North Korean military.So North Korean leaders are casting about for new investment. The powerful National Defense Commission recently created both the State Development Bank and the Taepung International Investment Group, which is charged with bringing in foreign investment. Park Chol-su, an ethnic Korean with Chinese citizenship, has top positions in both organizations. Mr. Park has an office in Beijing and led the recent tour to Rason, as well as a cruise aboard a dilapidated ship to the nature park of Mount Kumgang. Forbes reported last month that Mr. Park is even negotiating with American businesspeople to start production of Coca-Cola in North Korea.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“It’s the market that directs national development,” Mr. Park said in an interview. “We operate according to market economic principles.”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Park said North Korea welcomed investment from all countries, including the United States, but was looking closely at China, a critical ally, because “China has successfully opened and reformed. At this point, China has ample experience, so it’s easier for Chinese enterprises to participate in the North Korean market.”Some analysts ask how much the development will help the people of Rason and how much of it will replenish the coffers of Pyongyang. Bradley Babson, a former World Bank consultant who studies North Korea, said the leaders were putting “a high priority and a high profile” on the economic zones next to China to “re-establish central control over the significant potential for trade with China.”Mr. Kim has visited China four times since 2010. In June, Pyongyang approved a 50-year lease by China on two islands in the economic zone of Sinuiju, across the Yalu River from the Chinese city of Dandong. Mr. Hwang, the vice mayor, said North Korean officials had met with Chinese policy makers for advice on a new investment law for the economic zones.VideoA Chinese company critical to Rason’s development, the Yanbian Tianyu International Trade Company, got involved here 13 years ago. It began by erecting the bazaar, then built the casino, a hospital, a bread factory and a telecommunications building. It is now working on a cement factory, and operates two iron mines.“The policy environment has been improving continuously,” said Zheng Zhexi, 58, the company’s vice president. “It’s moving towards a market economy.”He pointed to the official tolerance for the bazaar, where merchants rent stalls from the government to sell goods that they buy from Chinese traders. Prices fluctuate and shoppers haggle. The bazaar has proved so successful that it is expanding to six times the current size.These kinds of markets have sprung up all over the country to supplement the government’s weak food distribution system. Still, the government is sensitive to their capitalist nature, and some top officials have tried to set limits on them. Foreign journalists were permitted a 15-minute tour of the Rason market on the condition that they not photograph it or take notes.The market, open just a few hours each day, was bustling, with goods like skinned rabbits, sofas, Sony headphones and Dell computer mice. A soldier with a Kalashnikov slung over his back walked among the aisles, looking to buy, and women running stalls wore red vests, the uniform of officially registered merchants.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyIn one corner was an office with the English words “Foreign Exchange” above the door. In Rason, currency is exchanged at the market rate — one Chinese renminbi to 350 North Korea won — rather than at the official rate, which values one renminbi at 15 won.For Rason to really attract foreign investment, it must solve the “urgent problem” of infrastructure, Mr. Hwang said. A Chinese company is paving a road from the Chinese border. The town also plans to buy electricity from China and build a coal-fired power plant with Chinese expertise. Mr. Hwang said officials had contracted with a Thai company, the Roxley Group, to establish cellphone and Internet service in Rason, and had agreements with the border guards not to confiscate foreigners’ cellphones, as they now do.The Peterson Institute for International Economics, based in Washington, recently published conclusions from a 2007 survey of 250 Chinese companies doing business in North Korea. The authors found that while nearly 90 percent were profitable, the companies “generally have a negative assessment of the business environment” for reasons like poor infrastructure and lack of rule of law.“In the future, of course I want to come here to invest,” said Wang Zhijun, a Chinese businessman on the recent tour. “For now, the conditions are not yet mature.”