The money that the United States voluntarily contributes to the United Nations is a little over 0.1 percent of the total federal budget. Some Republican lawmakers have sought in the past to make some of the assessed dues also voluntary, but that idea has never passed muster with Congress. One area that is likely to draw scrutiny from the Trump administration, judging from what Ms. Haley said during her confirmation hearing, is peacekeeping. The United States pays the largest share of the peacekeeping budget — about 28 percent — but provides virtually no soldiers The threats to cut funding come as China has stepped up its role at the United Nations, increasing its support for peacekeeping and development aid. China also has a veto in the Security Council. “This is a time of strength, this is a time of action, this is a time of getting things done,” Ms. Haley said on Friday, adding that she was prepared to re-evaluate the United Nations’ efforts.“Everything that’s working we’re going to make it better. Everything that’s not working we’re going to try and fix. And anything that seems to be obsolete and not necessary we’re going to do away with,” she said.Her tone was in contrast to a far more conciliatory approach just days ago, when she faced a Senate confirmation hearing. There, she said she did not favor a “slash and burn” approach to American contributions to the United Nations, but she questioned its value to American national interests.“Are we getting what we pay for?” she asked.Ms. Haley, 45, a former Republican governor of South Carolina and one of Mr. Trump’s most outspoken critics during the campaign, had tried to distance herself from some of what Mr. Trump has said about international diplomacy. She has said she favors continuing sanctions against Russia, for instance, but also cooperation with the Kremlin on counterterrorism. She has said she is concerned about security threats posed by refugees, and while she said climate change was “on the table,” she said she did not favor policies that imperiled business.