1. Simmer the tongue in water to cover with one onion, coarsely chopped, the carrots, celery and garlic, for about three hours or until tender. Turn off heat and leave the tongue in its cooking broth while you prepare the sauce.2. Chop the remaining onion and saute in the butter in a small pan. Add the raisins and the almonds and fry until the almonds are golden brown.3. Stir in the vinegar and tomato paste, then add the Madeira and stock. Simmer for three minutes to reduce slightly, season with salt and pepper to taste and keep warm.4. Peel the tongue and slice it. Arrange the slices on a serving platter and pour the sauce over the top. Yield: 6 servings Note: This dish goes well with boiled potatoes. Chicken, Dried Apricots 1 chicken (about 3 1/2 pounds) 2 teaspoons cumin 1 teaspoon paprika Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper 1 clove garlic, crushed 3/4 pound dried apricots 1 large onion, sliced 1 tablespoon butter 1 tablespoon oil.1. Rub the chicken with cumin, paprika, salt and pepper. Place the garlic in the cavity. Set aside at room temperature for one hour.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.2. Simmer the apricots in water to cover for 30 minutes, or until plump.3. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a large fireproof casserole, fry the onion in the butter and oil until soft. Add the chicken and apricots. Cover and bake in the oven for 45 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked, basting frequently. Remove lid for final 15 minutes of cooking so that the chicken breast browns. Correct seasoning and serve.Yield: 4 servings.Note: This goes well with rice and a green vegetable. Roast Loin of Pork, With Prunes 1 pound dried pitted prunes 1/2 cup dry red wine 5 pounds loin roast 2 cloves garlic 1 tablespoon dried rosemary or 2 tablespoons fresh Coarse salt and freshly ground pepper 2 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped.1. Soak the prunes for one hour in the wine.2. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Between each rib of pork make incisions big enough to hold two prunes, but not cutting right through the meat.Advertisement Continue reading the main story3. Slice the garlic and place a slice in each incision. Add a pinch of rosemary and pepper.4. Place the loin fat side up on a roasting rack in a baking pan. Roast for 2 hours, or until the meat is cooked, basting frequently. Be careful not to overcook or the pork will become dry.5. Put the roast on a heated serving dish and keep warm. Meanwhile, pour off as much fat as you can from the cooking juices. Place the roasting pan over high heat. Add the wine and scrape up the cooking juices. Season with salt and pepper and pour into a heated sauce boat. Garnish with chopped parsley. Pass the sauce separately.Yield: 6 servings.Note: This roast goes well with a puree of celery root and potatoes. James Beard's Compote Of Dried Fruits 1/2 pound each dried prunes, apricots, peaches, figs 3-4 cups water 6 thin slices lemon, seeds removed 1 1/2 cups sugar 1/4 to one-third cup bourbon, cognac or dark rum 2 cups sour cream, heavy cream or whipped cream or a mixture of 1/2 whipped cream and 1/2 yogurt.1. Put the fruits in a four-quart saucepan, cover with water and bring to boil. Add lemon slices and sugar, reduce heat and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes or until puffed. Add the bourbon, cognac or rum.2. Turn off heat and let the fruit remian in the pan for a few minutes to absorb the flavor of the spirit.3. Transfer to a serving dish and allow to cool slightly. Serve with desired type of cream.Note: This recipe is from ''The New James Beard'' (Knopf $16.95).