Representative Rick Boucher, a 14-term Democratic incumbent who lost his seat on Tuesday in Virginia’s Ninth Congressional District, brought in nearly three times as much in donations as his opponent, Morgan Griffith. But a number of Republican-oriented independent groups went on the offensive against Mr. Boucher. Together, Republican-leaning groups spent more than $850,000 on Mr. Griffith’s behalf, compared with about $200,000 by Democratic-leaning ones supporting Mr. Boucher.In many cases, the Republican-oriented groups got involved in the races early on, battering Democratic candidates with negative advertisements, helping to set the tone in those districts, even if Democratic candidates and their allies were eventually able to outspend them.“They went in early, and that helped them build momentum and shape the playing field,” said Cristina Uribe, a strategist for America’s Families First Action Fund, a Democratic-oriented group that became a major player in House races in the last few weeks. “Early money is like yeast. It makes the dough rise.”PhotoMs. Uribe also pointed to how the Republican groups, flush with cash, were able to spend across a vast range of races, forcing Democrats to make difficult choices about where to use limited resources.Carl Forti, who helped orchestrate spending decisions for American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, two groups linked to Karl Rove, said the goal all along was to expand the political map, putting Democrats on the defensive. Even if Democratic candidates ultimately won some of those races, he said, the spending by Republican-leaning groups was still useful.“All of those things impact the whole playing field,” Mr. Forti said. “It’s not just wins and losses.”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Together, the Crossroads groups reported spending about $36 million on 40 House or Senate races, according to Federal Election Commission records. Republican candidates won 23 of them, or about 58 percent.The Crossroads groups initially focused on Senate races, before turning to House contests. But some of their late investments in the House seem to have made a difference, like in Minnesota, where they went after Representative James L. Oberstar in a television advertisement last week, and in California, where they attacked Representative Jim Costa. Both are veteran lawmakers who raised far more than their challengers. Both men lost.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMeanwhile, the Chamber spent about $26 million in 51 different races supporting Republican candidates (it also spent a small amount backing Democrats in a handful of races), winning about 63 percent of them.In Senate contests, where the Chamber spent the bulk of its money, independent groups seemed to have more mixed results on Tuesday.The Chamber, for example, reported spending $4.7 million attacking Senator Barbara Boxer in California, only to see her win. Similarly, the Crossroads groups together spent about $4 million on the Nevada Senate race, first going on the air with advertisements attacking Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic majority leader, back in June, but he still managed to pull out a victory.Nevertheless, Mr. Forti said the Crossroads groups’ investment was hardly wasted, because it diverted Democratic attention and resources from other races.“In Nevada, we made a difference,” he said. “We didn’t win, no. But we definitely made a difference.”