But she’s not going far: She signed a contract to buy a three-bedroom in the same tower, for $1.47 million. In fact, Ms. Chae likes her building — and her evolving neighborhood — so much that she persuaded her parents to trade their Sutton Place co-op for a unit in the same complex.For decades, South Williamsburg struggled with poverty and crime, said Isaac Abraham, who heads the Federation of Tenants Council of Williamsburg, a housing advocacy group with 5,000 families as members. Today, the demand for affordable units is far outstripping supply, said Mr. Abraham, who for more than 30 years has lived in a two-bedroom rental in Roberto Clemente Plaza, a 1970s Mitchell-Lama complex. He recalls the days of the 1980s, when the neighborhood was tainted by drug dealing, prostitution and burning cars.Some changes are tough to swallow, like the bike lanes that crisscross the neighborhood, making it too hard to drive. And with thousands more apartments planned — the $1.5 billion Domino Sugar redevelopment on Kent Avenue, by the Williamsburg Bridge, recently received a key go-ahead from the city — car traffic is likely to increase, he said.“The city needs to do a better job with infrastructure,” he said, adding that increased bus service might help.PhotoWhat You’ll FindThere is general agreement that Grand Street forms the northern border of the neighborhood and Union Avenue the eastern one, with the East River as the western edge, but the southern edge is in dispute. Longtime residents put the southern border at Flushing Avenue, reflecting a time when the neighborhood was largely populated by Hasidic Jews and Hispanics, groups that still thrive today. But in the last decade or so, brokers and developers have tended to define the neighborhood more narrowly, stopping at Division Avenue, creating a border within which much of the new construction has gone up and where many of the new young residents have moved.The factories and warehouses that dominated this area for more than a century have often been creatively repurposed, but an industrial flavor remains.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFor instance, the Smith Gray building, where men’s wear was manufactured in the early 1900, added condos in the early 2000s. One of South Williamsburg’s first conversion projects, its six-story cast-iron facade still looms prominently at Broadway and Bedford Avenue. Close on its heels was the makeover of the nearby Gretsch, a condo at 60 Broadway, where guitars and other musical instruments were once produced.About 90 percent of the housing stock is rental, according to census data. Newer rentals include 424 Bedford Avenue, formerly known as Zazza, a 20-story, 66-unit high-rise with market-rate units; and 15 Dunham Place, a 14-story, 160-unit tower with market-rate and affordable apartments.But ownership opportunities are growing. A huge new project, Oosten, is rising from the full-block site of a former Schaefer beer plant at Wythe Avenue and South Eighth Street. It will deliver 216 condos by 2016.PhotoWhat You’ll PayIn a low-inventory market, there aren’t a lot of properties for sale; many are in a handful of buildings.Just 16 co-ops, condos and townhouses were listed for sale in early April, at an average list price of $1.78 million, according to Streeteasy.com.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.At the high end was a combined apartment at the Gretsch, with six bedrooms, six baths and eye-catching stonework, for $6.5 million. At the low end was a two-bedroom condo at Schaefer Landing at $975,000.In 2009, 61 condos sold, at an average price of $543,716, according to Streeteasy, and in 2013, 122 sold, at an average of $941,183.For now, the south side still trades at a discount from the north side, by about 15 percent, brokers say — $1,000 a square foot versus nearly $1,200 — but parity is expected in a few years.PhotoRents, meanwhile, are on the high side in new buildings. One-bedrooms at 424 Bedford, for instance, start at $3,000 a month. South Fourth Street, which opened this year, listed a one-bedroom at $4,200 in early April.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyWhat to DoResidents are buzzing about Urban Market of Williamsburg, which opened on Broadway and Kent in December; it brings a long-awaited grocery to the area.Restaurants to make an impression include Motorino, a popular pizzeria, which opened a location at 139 Broadway last year after its original East Williamsburg branch was condemned and razed. It joins Peter Luger Steakhouse, at 178 Broadway — once the only game around — as well as such standbys as Diner, and Marlow & Sons, at the corner of Berry Street.Residents can also now kick back on chairs in a newly formed pedestrian plaza on Broadway, which affords views of the Williamsburg Bridge and the dazzling dome of the Williamsburgh Savings Bank.The SchoolsA zoned public elementary option is Public School 84, which focuses on visual arts. It got a C on its recent city report card. Junior High School 050, at 183 South Third Street, is in the neighborhood; it was recently given a B on its report card.The nearby Brooklyn Latin School, which opened in 2006 and teaches Grades 9 through 12, emphasizes the classics for 500 students; it requires an entrance exam, and shirts and ties are a must. It received a B on its report card. On the 2013 SAT exams, students averaged 584 on the reading section, 604 math and 577 writing, versus 437, 463 and 433 citywide.The CommuteThe elevated J, M and Z trains stop at Marcy Avenue; the J and M at Hewes Street. The financial district can be reached in 15 minutes, though Midtown takes longer. Ferries also run to Manhattan throughout the day from a dock in front of Schaefer Landing.The HistoryBefore the Williamsburg Bridge was completed in 1903, ushering in the first sustained wave of Manhattan transplants, the area was reached by ferry. A smokestack at Grand Ferry Park was salvaged from a molasses plant where Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, founded nearby in 1849, came up with a way to mass-produce penicillin.