“How does this happen when so much is at stake?” asked Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon. “I don’t think we can pass a law that, excuse me for saying this, fixes stupid. I can’t fix stupid.”The congressional hearing — the first of four this week at which Mr. Smith was scheduled to testify — presented lawmakers with an opportunity to showcase their populist ire, albeit aimed at the former executive of a previously obscure company.On the opposite side of Capitol Hill, senators were ripping into the current chief executive of a better-known — but similarly beleaguered — financial institution, Wells Fargo. The giant bank’s chief, Timothy J. Sloan, was testifying about the company’s responses to a series of scandals that have rocked Wells Fargo over the past year.“At best you are incompetent; at worst you were complicit,” said Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts. “Either way, you should be fired.”Equifax already got rid of Mr. Smith, who announced his retirement last week. Even though he no longer works at Equifax, he was the only representative of the company to testify at the hearing. An Equifax spokesman, Wyatt Jefferies, declined to say whether any current executives had been invited to appear on Capitol Hill.The company previously said that an unpatched software flaw had been to blame for the massive security breach, but on Tuesday, Mr. Smith went a step further, describing the “human error and technology failures” that turned a single oversight into a data breach that allowed attackers to obtain personal details on nearly half of America’s population.In early March, the Department of Homeland Security sent Equifax and other companies an alert about a critical vulnerability in software that Equifax used in an online portal for recording customer disputes.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe company sent out an internal email requesting that its technical staff fix the software, but “an individual did not ensure communication got to the right person to manually patch the application,” Mr. Smith told the subcommittee. That was compounded by a technical error: The scanning software that Equifax used to detect vulnerabilities failed to find the unpatched hole, he said.Lawmakers from both parties — many of them citing anecdotes from family members, staffers or constituents who have been caught up in the breach — called for greater government oversight of the largely unregulated credit reporting industry.“We could have this hearing every year from now on if we don’t do something to change the current system,” said Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas. He called for new federal laws to “put some teeth” into penalties for data breaches.Mr. Smith maintained an even-keeled appearance and spoke in a muted tone throughout his testimony. “I’m truly and deeply sorry for what happened,” he said in his opening remarks.But Mr. Smith refused to commit Equifax to making whole any people who had been financially harmed as a result of the breach. He evaded the question when asked if Equifax would allow consumers to remove themselves from its files.“I never opted in,” said Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois. “I never said it was O.K. to have all my information, and now I want out. I want to lock out Equifax. Can I do that?”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Smith responded, “That requires a much broader discussion around the role of the credit reporting agencies.”Mr. Smith got tangled up several times trying to explain the difference between credit freezes, which allow people to block access to their credit reports, and locks, an industry-backed alternative that the bureaus say are easier for consumers to use. Freezes are regulated by the states; credit locks are not.Equifax has said that on Jan. 31 it will introduce a free lock that customers can turn on and off through a mobile phone app. But some lawmakers are pushing for credit reporting companies to offer complimentary credit freezes.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“Getting a free freeze, I think, is possible even in a divided Congress,” said Ed Mierzwinski, a consumer program director at the advocacy group U.S. PIRG who attended the hearing. “Everybody understands it.”On Monday, Ms. Schakowsky and Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, introduced the Secure and Protect Americans’ Data Act, an updated version of an unpassed bill that has been around for at least a decade. The latest iteration would require tougher security standards and faster notification of breaches.If the bill had been law during the Equifax breach, it would have required that affected individuals were notified of the breach in writing, and they would have been entitled to 10 years of free credit monitoring and credit freezes, according to a Democratic congressional aide.Lawmakers also grilled Mr. Smith about the stock sales by three senior Equifax executives, who sold shares worth almost $1.8 million in the days after the breach was discovered, but before it was disclosed. The sales were approved by John J. Kelley III, Equifax’s chief legal officer, who knew at the time that the company’s technical department had detected suspicious activity on Equifax’s network.The three executives who sold stock are “honorable men of integrity” who were unaware of the technical investigation, Mr. Smith said.Equifax’s public response to the breach — “ham-handed” and “unacceptable,” in Mr. Walden’s words — drew heavy condemnation. The company had extensive problems with its call centers and the website that it had set up to provide information to those whose information may have been exposed.One by one, Democrats and Republicans took turns blasting the company. It was a rare moment of bipartisanship, Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, observed.“You have brought Republicans and Democrats together in outrage and distress and frustration over what’s happened,” she said.