Mr. Lilley and other China specialists said Mr. Wu's case was one of the most important in the test of wills between China and the United States, in which each side seems eager to repair their battered relationship but needs to fend off domestic accusations of caving in to the other."I think they expect a response," Mr. Lilley said, referring to the Chinese side.It may come soon. Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff arrived in Shanghai on Thursday night, and is scheduled to go to Beijing today for meetings with Deputy Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing.Beijing has sought assurances from Washington that it will limit its support for Taiwan's efforts to win diplomatic recognition around the world, which Chinese leaders see as a move toward independence and away from reunification with the mainland. The Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, is also believed to be eager for a summit meeting with President Clinton.Chinese leaders also want to see Hillary Rodham Clinton attend the Fourth World Conference on Women, which opens in Beijing on Sept. 4. Although Mrs. Clinton clearly wants to attend, a decision had been delayed, apparently in the hope of provoking some progress in Mr. Wu's case.In Jackson, Wyo., where President Clinton is vacationing, the White House press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, issued a statement Thursday afternoon, saying: "The President welcomes the Chinese Government's decision and is pleased that Mr. Wu will be reunited with his family and friends later today. This action removes an obstacle to improving relations between the United States and China."The New China News Agency report said that the decision to expel Mr. Wu was made immediately after he told the court that he accepted its decision and would not appeal it."I accept the court's decision," the agency quoted Mr. Wu as saying.Mr. Wu, 58, spent 19 years in Chinese prisons and labor camps before leaving the country in 1985 and becoming an American citizen. In recent years he angered Chinese officials through his written and televised reports on abuses in the country's system of prison labor.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyHe was arrested when he tried to enter China on June 19 and the Chinese decision to charge him with spying and stealing state secrets, rather than simply turn him away or expel him, turned his case into an international cause.Although some China specialists see Mr. Wu's release as a victory for President Jiang Zemin, who faces internal opposition on his handling of Chinese-American relations, Mr. Lilley detected the hand of Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, who recently celebrated his 91st birthday and whose health is believed to have improved recently."Deng wants Taiwan-American issues to be handled pragmatically," Mr. Lilley said. "He did not want to see the American relationship keep sliding."In a state television broadcast on Thursday night, Mr. Wu was shown standing in the dock of a courtroom in Wuhan, looking somewhat weak, his head bowed. He wore a wrinkled white shirt with the sleeves rolled up and limped as he was led away."While in custody," another New China News Agency report said, "Wu received good, humane treatment and timely medical treatment for his leg ailments, and he expressed his thanks for this."Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The news agency also reported that Mr. Wu had confessed to breaking the law, ordinarily a condition for the resolution of any case in China."After thinking carefully and self-examination, I have sincerely drawn the conclusion that the following facts show that I have damaged the interests of the Chinese Government and the Chinese people directly or indirectly and that I have violated Chinese laws," the agency quoted him as saying.In a lengthy account of Mr. Wu's alleged wrongdoing, the agency reported late Thursday that he had hoodwinked Chinese prison and medical authorities on repeated occasions during visits to China over the past three years."From 1991 to 1994, Wu entered China bringing in other persons under the pretext of visiting friends, traveling, and doing business for the purpose of spying and illegally obtaining Chinese state secrets and providing them to overseas institutes and organizations," the report said.Advertisement Continue reading the main story"Three times, he filmed guard facilities, reform through labor sites, and the layout of a prison in Shanxi Province," it said. "Accompanied by a man named Chen, he stole one confidential document from each of two factories in Shanghai."The report also accused Mr. Wu of paying a Hong Kong man $4,000 to spy on, and film, guard facilities at Chinese prisons."Then, in August 1991, wearing a police uniform, he passed himself off as a policeman and sneaked into a prison in Qinghai Province to do more illegal filming," the report said.The report seemed to be at pains to describe Mr. Wu's case in legal terms, apparently to support its insistence that his prosecution was handled according to law."Based on facts and evidence, the court confirmed that Wu had violated the supplementary regulations on . . . leaking state secrets promulgated by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and article 166 of the criminal law of the People's Republic of China." the report said. "After considering the facts, evidence as well as his admission of guilt, and his having been used by others, the court reached its judgment."Mr. Wu was represented by two local lawyers, the report also said, adding that the hearing was attended by a United States consular official, First Secretary Daniel Piccuta, who was also shown in the television report.Technically, Mr. Wu had the right to appeal within 10 days, though an appeal in China rarely leads to a reversal. A spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Beijing said that Mr. Wu, after conferring with his lawyers, decided at the sentencing not to appeal. -------------------- China Said to Hold 2 ProfessorsBEIJING, Aug. 24 (Reuters) -- China has detained a husband and wife who are college professors and known campaigners for the Government to recognize the 1989 student protests as legitimate, a friend said today.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyDing Zilin and her husband Jiang Peikun, both professors at the People's University in Beijing, were escorted from her husband's home in the southern city of Wuxi on Aug. 18 by officials of the city procurator's office and are being held there, the friend, who asked not to be identified, said by telephone.Ding Zilin has pushed for the Government to recognize the 1989 student-led pro-democracy demonstrations as legitimate since her only son was killed on the night of June 3, 1989, when army troops and tanks crushed the protests in Beijing.The friend quoted city officials as saying Ding had been detained for an "economic problem."The real reason, the friend said, was to prevent contact between Ding and any of the thousands of women coming to Beijing to attend the Sept. 4-15 United Nations World Conference on Women and a grassroots forum that precedes it.