For more than a year, China’s slowing economy has created pressure on the renminbi to weaken. Despite that, the government held to its longstanding practice and kept it closely linked to the dollar, which has grown stronger as the United States’ economy has rebounded.Previously, the central bank assigned a value to the currency each morning, allowing its value against the dollar to rise or fall by a maximum of 2 percent. In practice, it barely budged more than a small fraction of a percentage point each day.Now, policy makers say they will give market forces greater sway over currency’s value. The official exchange rate will be set based on the renminbi’s trading performance, not simply by a government decree.“The central bank has withdrawn from the normal mode of intervention,” Yi Gang, the deputy governor of the bank and the head of the unit that runs China’s foreign exchange system, said in Beijing. “But if you say the market has commonly recognized rules of the game, then those are still the rules that we lay out.”Commenting on reports that the bank was aiming for a 10 percent devaluation, Mr. Yi told reporters in Beijing that “this is nonsense and is totally unfounded.”By devaluing the renminbi now, China has also helped its exporters, whose goods will become relatively cheaper for overseas buyers. Bank officials on Thursday denied this was their goal in pushing down the currency.The central bank still seems willing to intervene directly. On Wednesday, when the renminbi showed signs of weakening by the 2 percent limit, the bank was widely reported to have jumped into the currency market, selling dollars to push up the value of the renminbi — which ended up closing only 1 percent lower.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“They intervened massively and drove the exchange rate up,” said Arthur R. Kroeber, the managing director of Gavekal Dragonomics, a financial consultancy.What’s the Latest For the third day in a row, China’s central bank on Thursday devalued the currency , the renminbi, this time by 1.1 percent against the dollar., the renminbi, this time by 1.1 percent against the dollar. The total devaluation since Tuesday is 4.4 percent, the biggest drop in decades.Government officials, in an unexpected news conference on Thursday, stressed that the currency was not in free fall.on Thursday, stressed that the currency was not in free fall. Global markets appeared to respond to the assurances. The Shanghai composite index ended the day higher.to the assurances. The Shanghai composite index ended the day higher. The devaluation reflects weakness in the Chinese economy .. A weaker currency would make goods more affordable for overseas buyers, but it risks tensions with trading partners like the United States.But the new system “is clearly on the spectrum of a much more market-exchange-rate environment,” he added.On Thursday, trading slowed, although activity picked up in the final few minutes of the day. The renminbi weakened only slightly, by 0.2 percent. This suggested that, under the new system, the central bank would not be under pressure to make another drastic shift in the renminbi’s trading range on Friday.Stock markets across the region recovered modestly on Thursday after the recent sell-off, led by Shanghai, where the main index finished 1.8 percent higher after two days of declines. Other currency markets outside China also stabilized, including the South Korean won, which rose against the dollar in late Asian trading.Mr. Yi did not directly comment on intervention when asked about it on Thursday, but hinted it was a tool still at the central bank’s disposal.“When there’s excessive volatility in the market, it can still be effectively managed,” he said.