Mr. Trump, once again, said he will insist on an end to the diversity lottery system, which encourages immigration from a variety of countries. Mr. Trump referred to the program as a “broken system” that brings the wrong kind of people into the United States. He said that he wanted to negotiate an end to so-called chain migration, but said he would work to allow nuclear families to stay together.Despite the president’s pledge to the Dreamers, his administration cracked down earlier Wednesday on so-called sanctuary cities. The Justice Department asked the 23 jurisdictions across the country to furnish documents proving that they had not kept information from federal immigration authorities. The department’s move caused several Democratic mayors from some of the country’s largest cities to boycott a White House meeting with Mr. Trump.“Protecting criminal aliens from federal immigration authorities defies common sense and undermines the rule of law,” Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement. “Enough is enough.”The protest against the letter and Mr. Sessions’s comments added a local dimension to the roiling national debate. Mitch Landrieu, the mayor of New Orleans and the president of the United States Conference of Mayors, said on Wednesday at a news conference in Washington that he saw the Justice Department’s move as an “attack,” and that he could not “in good conscience” attend the White House meeting.Sanctuary cities, which generally refuse to hold people on immigration agents’ behalf without a warrant from a judge, have pushed back hard over the past year on the administration’s attempts to force them to abandon their stance by cutting off federal funding to them. Some, like Chicago, have filed lawsuits against the Justice Department.“President Trump shouldn’t invite us to the White House for a meeting on infrastructure and three hours before issue the equivalent of what are arrest warrants for standing up for what we believe in and, by the way, what America believes in,” Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago said.Mr. Sessions has taken a hard line on the issue since his days as an Alabama senator. Since Mr. Trump took office, both men have focused on sanctuary cities, accusing such places of flouting the law and helping convicted criminals evade deportation.