Behold, therefore, the Sunday afternoon dinner for 8, 10 or 12. Note its advantages. Unlike the cocktail party, it provides honest food served without a built-in eviction notice. As opposed to the Saturday night bash, it invites comparison with no previous performances.Americans have not entertained at midday dinner for decades; a host could serve canned spaghetti and still be one notch above any guest's expectations. Sunday afternoon is the nearest thing we have in this country to an eternity without hope: From our childhood up it has been a time when Dad is asleep on the couch, Mom is dozing over the crossword puzzle -and there will never, as long as we live, be anything at all to do again.Such a golden opportunity for failure-proof parties must not be wasted, however. In particular, it should not be thrown away on the cook-killing exercise known as the Sunday brunch. Whipping up dozens of last-minute egg dishes is a task for masochists or someone who chooses to be paid for the task, not hosts who want to enjoy their own party.Accordingly, a dinner it is: all of it, except the vegetable, requires no last-minute cooking at all. And just so the lack of a table for 12 will be no object, the whole meal can be served from the buffet and eaten without knives on one knee.As the guests come in they are handed not finger-freezing rocks in glasses or throat-chilling wine but cups of steaming homemade consomme - and presented neat, at that, with no silly garnishes to blemish the clarity of the broth. In due time a Gewurztraminer is poured and bay scallops ceviche make their appearance, along with good bread and butter.The main course, when called for, has long since been ready in the oven: a bountiful cassoulet of beans, pork, lamb, sausage and preserved duck. With it comes a side dish of lightly steamed broccoli heated through in a little butter at the last minute - and perhaps a Zinfandel of more than ordinary pretensions. Finally, for dessert, there is a remarkably good, plain, lemon-flavored sand cake to be served with vanilla ice cream topped with lingonberries.After that it's coffee, cordials and stay as long as you like. The evening isn't just young; it hasn't even been born. It's only 4:30; we can make a night of it and still get to bed by 10. Consomme 4 to 5 pounds beef bones (shin, neck o knuckle) 2 pounds stewing beef, cubed 1 1/2 pounds stewing veal, cubed (or a veal knuckle bone) 2 pounds uncooked chicken parts (backs, necks, wings or drumsticks) 4 leeks 1 large onion, studded with 2 whole cloves 1 cup diced turnip 1 cup diced carrot 2 ribs celery, chopped coarse 1 bay leaf, crumbled 1 teaspoon thyme 1/2 teaspoon savory 1/4 teaspoon blade mace 2 teaspoons salt 10 whole peppercorns 3 1/2 to 4 quarts water (to cover barely).Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.2. Put bones and meat in large baking pan and roast for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, or until nicely browned.3. Put vegetables and seasonings into large stockpot. Add browned meat and bones. Rinse baking pan several times with some of water, scraping to loosen all browning, and add rinsings and remaining water to stockpot.4. Bring stock to boil slowly, reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 3 1/2 hours.5. Strain broth through double cheesecloth or bouillon strainer and refrigerate overnight. Residual meats, if combined with fresh vegetables in aggressively seasoned sauce -with, say, plenty of Madeira and Worchestershire sauce - will make quite good pot pies for freezing. To clarify the consomme 1 pound ground lean beef 3 egg whites 1 leek, shredded 1 carrot, shredded 3 quarts stock from preceding recipe 1 teaspoon dried thyme.1. Mix first 4 ingredients thoroughly and stir into cold stock.2. Bring stock slowly to boiling point, stirring frequently. Do not let it come to full boil; simmer very gently, uncovered, for 40 minutes. Add thyme and simmer 10 minutes more. Remove from heat, allow to settle and cool for 10 minutes and strain through double cheesecloth or bouillon strainer. (The residual solids can be used for pet food.)3. Reheat clarified consomme, check for salt, and serve piping hot in demitasses or small bouillon cups. Yield: About 2 1/2 quarts. Scallops Ceviche 3 pounds bay scallops (or sea scallops, quartered) 1 1/2 cups fresh lime juice 1/2 cup fresh coriander leaves (or fresh parsley), chopped 1/2 cup chopped scallions Salt and pepper to taste 1/2 cup olive oil.1. Marinate scallops in lime juice for several hours in refrigerator, stirring occasionally.2. Drain them, add remaining ingredients and mix thoroughly. Serve with bread, butter and plenty of toothpicks. Yield: 12 servings. Cassoulet The beans 1 pound dried Great Northern white beans 5 cups boiling water 1 medium onion, studded with 2 whole cloves 1 carrot, quartered 1 rib celery, quartered 1 clove garlic, crushed Bouquet garni ( 1/2 teaspoon thyme, 1 bay leaf, 1 tablespoon chopped parsley stems, all tied in cheesecloth bag) 1/4 cup salt pork, diced fine 2 pounds garlic sausage (kielbasa or bauernwurst, for example) 2 teaspoon salt.1. Wash beans, add boiling water and boil 2 minutes, covered. Turn heat off and let stand for 1 hour.2. Add remaining ingredients, bring to boil and simmer, covered, for 20 minutes. Remove sausage and reserve it. Recover and cook beans for 40 minutes more. The ragout 2 tablespoons duck fat or cooking oil 1 1/2 pounds cubed raw pork or lamb (or 3/4 pound of each) 2 large onions, chopped 1 cup peeled tomatoes, chopped 1/2 cup tomato sauce 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 1/2 cup dry white wine 1/2 cup beef stock (from consomme, above) or duck stock (see below) Black pepper to taste.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Heat fat in large skillet and brown meat on all sides. Transfer meat to bean mixture, leaving fat behind. 2. Add onions to skillet and brown lightly, stirring often. Add remaining ingredients and cook for 5 minutes. Transfer to bean mixture and simmer everything for 1 hour more, adding additional stock if mixture becomes too dry (it should be quite soupy) Remove bouquet garni. Check seasoning. The cassoulet 1 1/2 pounds sliced preserved duck meat (see below)or leftover roast duck meat Reserved sausage (see above), sliced Leftover duck gravy, if any 2 cups soft, fresh breadcrumbs 1/4 cup butter, melted.1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees.2. Spread half of bean and meat mixture in bottom of large casserole. Arrange sliced duck and sausage over it and top with rest of mixture.3. Mix breadcrumbs with melted butter and sprinkle half of them over top of dish. Bake for 40 minutes, push crust down into mixture with spoon (gently, so as not to scramble layers), add rest of buttered breadcrumbs and continue cooking until crust reforms. Keep warm until serving time; do not let it dry out.Yield: 12 servings. Preserved Duck 4 or more domestic ducks, jointed (see below) For every 2 pounds of duck pieces: 3 tablespoons kosher salt 1/8 teaspoon saltpeter 1/2 teaspoon thyme 1/2 bay leaf 1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper.1. Cut up ducks: remove legs and separate into thigh and leg pieces; remove entire breast and cut in two lengthwise (only these pieces are preserved).2. Mix salt with remaining ingredients, rub pieces thoroughly with it, pack into bowl and let stand for 24 hours in refrigerator.3. Put remaining parts of the ducks, including all fat, in pot and cover with water. Chop carrot, onion, rib celery and sprig parsley and add to pot along with bay leaf and a little thyme, salt and pepper. Simmer, covered, for 3 hours. Strain and refrigerate stock overnight. Remove cake of fat and reserve. Freeze stock for other uses.4. Wipe salted duck pieces to remove excess salt and put into deep pot. Melt all duck fat you have on hand and, when hot, pour over duck pieces in pot, adding as much hot melted lard as needed to cover pieces. Simmer pieces very gently for 1 1/4 to 2 hours, or until no liquid comes out when they are pierced with knitting needle.Advertisement Continue reading the main story5. When duck is cool, remove skin and bones if desired, pack pieces into wide-mouthed jars (fill the jars only 3/4 full) and pour on melted fat to cover.6. Refrigerate until set and then top jars up with more melted fat to insure a good seal. Duck preserved in this way will keep up to 6 months in refrigerator. To use, simply warm the jar in a very low oven till fat melts, fork out pieces needed and refrigerate again (making sure of good depth of fat for seal). Steamed Broccoli 4 bunches broccoli 1/4 pound butter Salt and pepper to taste.1. Trim bottom inch off broccoli stalks and discard. Cut each stalk crosswise into 3 pieces. 2. Cut topmost piece of each stalk into small flowerets. Cut remaining pieces into fine julienne. Put all into cold water for at least 1/2 hour to refresh them.3. Bring suitably large steamer of water to boil, add all broccoli and steam, covered, for 5 minutes, tossing from top to bottom a few times.4. When just barely tender, remove to collander, spray t liberally with cold water and drain.5. When ready to serve, melt butter in skillet and toss broccoli with salt and pepper to taste, until heated through. Yield: 12 servings. Sand Cake 1 cup butter 1 cup confectioners' sugar 1 cup fine granulated sugar 4 eggs 3/4 cup potato starch or cornstarch 3/4 cup cake flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla Finely grated rind of 1 lemon.1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.2. Cream butter and sugars together thoroughly.3. Add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition.4. Sift starch, cake flour and baking powder together and add, mixing thoroughly.5. Add vanilla and lemon rind, mix batter well, pour into buttered and floured tube pan and bake for 45 minutes or until cake tester comes out clean.6. When cool, remove from pan and sprinkle with powdered sugar. Serve in slices with vanilla ice cream and lingonberries. Yield: 12 servings.