“He has supported this company, he has given everything to this company, and I feel the Met’s responsibility is to support him as long as we can,” Mr. Gelb, who briefed the Met’s board members on the situation on Monday, said in an interview. “If in fact it’s possible that by regulating his medication he will be able to conduct like the James Levine of before, that would be a miraculous turn of events that everyone here would embrace and cheer for.”The question of what to do about Mr. Levine — who is beloved by singers, musicians and audiences — poses a conundrum for the Met. He has not only shaped but also helped define the modern Metropolitan Opera since becoming its music director 40 years ago, conducting more than 2,500 performances, choosing repertoire and nurturing many careers.But more than a decade’s worth of health problems — including Parkinson’s disease, back problems, and a severe spinal injury from a fall that forced him to miss two seasons and has left him conducting from a wheelchair — have taken a toll on his ability to lead vibrantly.While his spinal injury has been improving, and his first two seasons back after his accident were largely a success, Mr. Levine, 72, appeared noticeably frailer this season, listing to the right in his wheelchair during some performances, and seeming to have trouble controlling his left arm. The performances he led of Wagner’s “Tannhäuser” and Strauss’s “Die Fledermaus” were well received, but he withdrew from the highlight of his season: a new production of Berg’s “Lulu,” an opera he brought into the Met’s repertory. That, he said, made him feel “terrible.”Some of those well-reviewed performances came off with extraordinary measures behind the scenes, Met employees said. Orchestra players who had trouble reading Mr. Levine’s beat relied more on intuition of what they thought he would want and on watching the concertmaster. Singers onstage looked more to the prompter’s box for direction. And Donald Palumbo, the Met’s chorus master, conducted the chorus from the wings of the stage, with using an audio monitor to help him coordinate with the orchestra.