That’s why most supermarkets buy it already sliced. Mr. Speidel said that meat-department managers often purchase shaved steak in modified atmosphere packaging, plastic tubs filled with nitrogen, carbon dioxide or carbon monoxide, which keeps the slices rosy red.Wherever the beef comes from and whatever the cut, when sliced between1/16- and 1/8-inch thick it is economical because a little looks like a lot. That feeling of abundance also makes it a good choice for people who, for one reason or another, are trying to eat less red meat.And as Mr. Dickson pointed out, shaved steak is an unintimidating cut for people who aren’t entirely comfortable at the stove. Precision timing is not required. The meat is going to cook quickly, and whether it ends up medium or well done it will still be tender.“Sometimes people don’t think they can cook a thick steak,” he said. “But nobody says, ‘I can’t cook that.’ ” Shaved steak, he said, is “foolproof.”PhotoFor that reason, perhaps, it has been the kitchen training wheels for many chefs, though most of them would never think of putting it on the menu.Hugue Dufour, the chef and owner of M. Wells in Long Island City, Queens, said that when he was growing up in Alma, Quebec, 300 miles north of Montreal, shaved steak fondue was the best treat he could have. He remembered dipping slices of the meat into the steaming onion soup his mother prepared with beef broth made from Oxo cubes. The second day, she would add Gruyère toasts to the broth, which had been enriched with the juices from the steak, and serve gratinéed onion soup.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyLater, beef fondue was the first dinner he made with friends as a teenager. “It made us feel grown up, doing adult things,” Mr. Dufour said, “even if it was simple.”In Philadelphia, the chef Marc Vetri, of the restaurants Vetri, Osteria and Amis, was raised on another down-to-earth version of shaved steak, the cheese steak. “Most Sundays we’d go down to my grandmother’s house, six blocks from the steak sandwich place. Once a month we’d walk over to Pat’s King of Steaks. It was a special day.”When he was old enough to cook at the stove, he made his own steak sandwiches, using Steak-umm, the chopped, shaped and frozen version of shaved steak. “I loved Steak-umm when I was 11 or 12 years old,” he said. But he would not countenance a cheese steak adaptation on any of his restaurants’ menus. “I’m a traditionalist,” he said. “I don’t want to mess with it.”PhotoMarco Canora, an owner of Hearth and the two Terroir wine bars in Manhattan, used to serve beef in brodo when he was the chef at Insieme in Midtown. “The thinly sliced beef looks so beautiful raw,” he said. “Then pouring hot consommé over the top lightly poaches it.”At Bubby’s in TriBeCa, Ron Silver buys a whole steer every week from Fleisher’s, and it’s his job to figure out what to do with everything from the tongue to the tail. Depending on the time of year, the top round might be turned into shaved steak. “I’ll ask myself, ‘Is it cheese steak season or beef stew season?’ ” Mr. Silver said.Shaved steak is not a staple of Mexican cuisine. Most cooks prefer the slightly thicker beef milanesa cut, similar to minute steak. But Memo Pinedo, the proprietor of a restaurant and a food truck in Houston, both called Jarro Cafe, appreciates Angus beef sliced from sirloin for his tacos de bistec. It’s so thin he can cook it in steam coming off a skillet of sizzling onions, tomatoes and jalapeños. “It’s the most juicy meat and the most tender,” he said. “It’s hard to find in Houston. I have to slice it myself.”At Takashi, a Japanese raw beef and Korean-style barbecue restaurant in the West Village, Takashi Inoue treats 10 or so cuts of very thinly sliced beef like a delicacy, showing that, depending on the thickness and cut of meat, you will taste a difference.“The rib-eye is the thinnest because I want people to feel the melt,” he said. “You don’t even have to chew. The short rib and skirt steak have more texture, and the texture should be enjoyed.”But few chefs etherealize shaved steak.“I do love it,” said Mr. Silver, of Bubby’s. “In the roulette wheel of stuff I like to eat, it makes a trashy, greasy sandwich that hits the spot.”