Most of these wines are made in small quantities. Few people will be able to find all of them, and some people may not find any. The good news is that you can also look for bottles cited in previous 20 Under $20 columns. Many of them continue to be great deals.Guess what else? These are all pretty good on your days off, too.La Staffa Verdicchio dei Castelli di Jesi Classico Superiore 2017 $17.99It’s fair to say that Italy has not always done well by verdicchio. It’s a grape of great potential, capable of making lovely, intense, complex wines. Too often, when planted in the wrong places, overcropped or made carelessly, it disappoints. But good ones, like this wine from La Staffa, grown in the Castelli di Jesi region in the northern Marche near the Adriatic, reawaken curiosity. It is fresh, crisp and refreshing, with flavors of peaches and citrus and underlying minerality. (Artisanal Cellars, White River Junction, Vt.)Rogue Vine Itata Valley Grand Itata Tinto 2015 $19.99This bottle from Chile is made with cinsault, a staple of cheap wines and usually not treated with care. But this wine, from old vines in the Itata Valley, blended with about 5 percent pais (the Chilean term for the mission grape), shows how good cinsault can be. Rogue is a partnership between Leonardo Erazo , the winemaker at the excellent Altos Las Hormigas in Mendoza, Argentina, and Justin Decker, a wine enthusiast from Indiana who moved to Chile. It is marked by the fresh flavors of red fruits and herbs and an intriguing touch of funk. (Brazos Wine, Brooklyn, N.Y.)Troupis Fteri Agiorgitiko 2015 $19.99The rest of the world is just beginning to explore the wealth of excellent wines that are coming from Greece. This red, made from the agiorgitiko grape, which is sometimes Anglicized as St. George, is fresh and lightly tannic, with aromas of flowers and an array of red and black fruits. It comes from the Fteri region of the Peloponnese. The producer, Troupis, also makes a compelling moschofilero. (DNS Wines/Dionysi Grevenitis Selections, San Francisco)Mother Rock Force Celeste Swartland Chenin Blanc 2016 $16.97Aside from the Loire Valley, South Africa is the other major home for the chenin blanc grape. It has not always been easy to find good examples of these bottles in the United States, but this one is excellent, with classic chenin blanc character: aromas of flowers, honey and beeswax, richly textured and not heavy, with a pleasing dose of minerality. (Vine Street Imports, Mt. Laurel, N.J.)Momo Marlborough Pinot Noir 2014 $19.96New Zealand, like the West Coast, has a problem. It can make very fine pinot noir, but it’s costly to grow and produce. This bottle from Momo, a label for moderately priced wines from Seresin, is not complex. But it is bright and high-toned, earthy, focused and exceedingly pleasant. (The Sorting Table, Napa, Calif.)