PhotoThe Challenge: A 62-year-old man develops a pain in his neck that spreads to his shoulder and arm, a facial droop and numbness and swelling in both hands. Can you figure out why?Think Like a Doctor Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders.Every month the Diagnosis column of The New York Times Magazine asks Well readers to sift through a difficult case and figure out a diagnostic puzzle. In this case, a retired engineer develops neck pain after working in his yard that rapidly progresses to arm and hand weakness and then to a lopsided face. His M.R.I. suggests a pinched nerve. His surgeon isn’t so sure.I’ll give you the information and imaging that were available when the patient was admitted to the hospital. I’ll also give you the patient history and physical exam and test results obtained by the doctor who first saw him. You can ask me for any additional history you think might be helpful and, if known, I’ll provide it. After that, it’s up to you to use this information to make the correct diagnosis.As usual, the first person to crack the case gets a copy of my book “Every Patient Tells a Story,” and that warm feeling you get when you figure out an interesting riddle.A Series of Unfortunate EventsIt had been a strange morning from the moment he got out of bed, the 62-year-old man told the young surgeon. First, he’d had trouble putting on his pants. His left arm was weak; his left hand, useless. Putting on your pants with one hand is some trick, he said with a lopsided smile. Then, when he was brushing his teeth, the foamy toothpaste wouldn’t stay in his mouth. He looked at himself in the mirror and his heart just about stopped: His whole face was crooked. The right side, from shaggy eyebrow to toothpaste-covered lip, seemed somehow lower than the left. The bottom eyelid sagged away from the eye itself, revealing the moist pink flesh inside. His cheek on that side lay strangely flat against the bone and his lips, just on that side of his face, felt numb and wouldn’t move the way the other side did. It was odd and a little scary. He rinsed his mouth and went in search of his wife. When she saw his face she uttered the question he most feared: Was this a stroke? She wanted to take him straight to the emergency room. He refused to go. He knew he had this doctor’s appointment already scheduled in an hour or two, and he figured that walking in to see a doctor who expected him might be better than waiting for hours in an emergency room. Let’s see what the surgeon has to say, he told his wife. So here he was.The Patient’s HistoryIt all started maybe a week ago, when he got this strange and terrible cramp in his neck. It came on after he had spent an afternoon clearing logs out of his backyard, so at first he thought he had just pulled a muscle. But the pain just got worse and worse. He couldn’t move, couldn’t sleep – it was excruciating. And then the pain started to travel. First to his left shoulder. Then down his left arm. Finally all the way down to his left hand. It got so bad that he could hardly move his arm, and even a coffee cup seemed too heavy to hold. He called his primary care doctor. Based on the description of his pain, his doctor immediately sent him to the University of Connecticut Health Center in nearby Farmington to get an X-ray and M.R.I. of his neck. Right from the get-go, his doctor suspected a pinched nerve. And that’s apparently what they saw. In the emergency room, he met Dr. Isaac Moss, an orthopedic surgeon who gave him some steroids. If it was a pinched nerve, the prednisone would reduce the swelling at the tight spot and ease the pain. You can see the X-ray here:PhotoThis is the M.R.I.:PhotoYou can see Dr. Moss’s note from the E.R. here:Weighing SurgeryThat’s why the patient was now at this appointment – to discuss the possibility of surgery with Dr. Moss. Frankly, the thought of an operation had little appeal when his only problem was neck and shoulder pain, the man told the surgeon. But in the few days since the M.R.I., everything had gotten much worse. Now his arm was not only painful but weak as well. That morning his hand was practically useless – no strength at all. And now his face? Surgery was starting to look like a reasonable option. The surgeon was concerned about the rapid progression from localized pain to weakness in the patient’s arm and hand. And he wasn’t sure what to make of the facial droop. It was clearly limited to a single nerve, the seventh cranial nerve, on the right side of his face. That kind of paralysis was pretty common. Was it connected to the neck/shoulder/arm problem? Unclear. He sent the patient to the hospital for further work-up and maybe surgery in the morning. Maybe. You can see the surgeon’s note from his office here.Worse and WorseThe patient was transferred to the medicine service. Over the course of the next few days his symptoms continued to change and spread. He developed a stripe of numbness on the left side of his chest. The fingers on both hands became numb and swollen. He had difficulty passing his water. Throughout it all he was being treated with an antiviral medication (Acyclovir) and two different antibiotics (doxycycline and ceftriaxone). There is a principle in medicine called Occam’s razor. Loosely based on the writings of a 14th century Franciscan monk, William of Ockham, the principle suggests that the simplest answer is the answer most likely to be true. Given this principle, is there a single diagnosis that fits this patient? I have provided the admission note and the labs done the first couple of days of the patient’s hospitalization. If you would like additional history, I will provide it during the day in the Comments section.Solving the MysteryMy challenge to you is to figure out what this patient has that continues to worsen despite broad antibiotic and antiviral coverage. It took the doctors a while to figure it out. What about you?Rules and Regulations: Post your questions and diagnosis in the Comments section. The correct answer will appear on Friday on Well. The first person to answer will receive a copy of my book and that warm, wonderful feeling you get from solving a mystery. The winner will be contacted. Reader comments may also appear in a coming issue of The New York Times Magazine.Thanks for all your responses! You can read about the correct diagnosis, and the winner, at “Think Like a Doctor: Mirror, Mirror Solved!”