Mr. Levine, who celebrated 40 years at the house last season, was a remarkable workhorse until a fall onstage at the Boston Symphony Orchestra in 2006 required him to have rotator cuff surgery. Then came kidney surgery for a malignant cyst and repeated back surgeries, forcing numerous cancellations at the Met and even more at the Boston Symphony, where he was music director from 2004 until he threw in the towel there last spring.“Rather than hang on endlessly and having to cancel a lot, it would probably be good for everybody if he decided to step down and hand over” the reins, said John Allison, the music critic for The Sunday Telegraph in London and editor of Opera magazine. “That’s of course unless the doctors can get him back to vigorous health. I don’t know if that’s likely. It can’t be good for the company to have him cancel all the time, and frankly, it can’t be good for his morale either.”The Met’s general manager, Peter Gelb, was resolute in sticking with Mr. Levine, who has turned the company’s orchestra into a glory of the opera world and has enormous respect from singers.“Sure, the Met could say it’s time to make a change,” Mr. Gelb said, “but why would we want to do that if we have the possibility to continue with him? At the point he can’t do it any longer, he’ll stop. But if he wants to come back, we owe it to him to support him.”PhotoMr. Gelb said Mr. Levine’s “unparalleled relationship” with the Met had to be considered. “It’s something that can’t be simply discarded, nor do we want it to be,” Mr. Gelb continued. “He’s such a great artist, and he’s given so much to the company, and we believe he will give more. Ultimately his physical condition will determine it.”“At the same time,” he added, “we don’t want to put ourselves in artistic jeopardy.” So the Met appointed Mr. Luisi principal guest conductor in April 2010.“We are dealing with it as best we can, and I think effectively,” Mr. Gelb said. “Certainly we do not want to let down the audiences, and Jim doesn’t want to let down the audiences.”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Levine, the Met said in a statement, hopes to recover in time for the Jan. 27 opening of the “Ring” cycle’s final work, “Götterdämmerung,” and for the three complete “Ring” cycles in April and May. Mr. Gelb said Mr. Luisi would be expected to step in if health problems prevented Mr. Levine from taking on either assignment.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe Met released few details about Mr. Levine’s fall, saying only that it happened last week while he was walking outside a hotel with a cane. He underwent surgery on Thursday. He had a major operation last year for spinal stenosis, or compression of the spinal cord, and two follow-up surgeries, Mr. Gelb said he had canceled Tuesday’s rehearsal, which was to have been the conductor’s first day back, just the night before.“I didn’t want it to come out in dribs and drabs,” he added. “I wasn’t exactly sure what his condition was.”Mr. Levine had already ceded opening-night duties, something he has done only six times since becoming music director in 1976, according to the Met press office. Mr. Luisi will conduct “Don Giovanni” on Oct. 13, 17, 22, 25 and 29. Louis Langrée, best known in New York as the music director of the Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center, will take the performances of Oct. 31 and Nov. 3, 7 and 11.Mr. Luisi will conduct “Siegfried” on Oct. 27 and Nov. 5, and Derrick Inouye will take over for the Nov. 1 performance. Mr. Luisi will also lead the Met Orchestra at Carnegie Hall on Oct. 16.Mr. Luisi was forced to cancel appearances with the Rome Opera; his hometown Genoa Opera; the Vienna Symphony, where he is chief conductor; and the San Francisco Symphony. He will still lead the Vienna Symphony on a United States tour this fall. That was something too important for him and the orchestra to miss, Mr. Luisi said in an e-mail.“Well, of course they are not pleased,” Mr. Luisi said of the institutions where he canceled. “Neither am I, since I always honor my contracts. But they understand the ‘bigger picture,’ and the dimension of the projects we are talking about.”Mr. Luisi made his Met debut in 2005 and has conducted more than a dozen productions at the house.“He is a brilliant conductor,” Mr. Jenkins, of the Seattle Opera, said. “Peter Gelb really came up with somebody important.”