It already had the setting: that theatrically tall, marble and nickel-walled hall in the old Metropolitan Life Building, with grand windows onto the verdure of Madison Square Park. It already had a deep, broad wine list.It just needed a bit more polish in its service and a lot more sparkle in its food. Over the last three and a half years, it has received precisely that, in measures that increased steadily since the arrival of Mr. Humm (and, soon after him, a new general manager, Will Guidara, and a new wine director, John Ragan, who has wisely supplemented familiar treasures from France with less familiar ones from other countries).Mr. Humm’s French-grounded cooking, which bridges the classically saucy decadence of the past and the progressive derring-do of a new generation, drew notice from the get-go. He hadn’t been in place long before the city’s gluttons were atwitter (in the old-fashioned sense) about his way with suckling pig. He served it as a dense, tender brick of confit below the most crisply fatty sheet of crackling imaginable.But instead of resting on his suckling laurels, he took this wrinkle of his reputation and ran with it, developing a tasting menu with five consecutive courses of suckling pig, including belly cooked sous vide and a roasted rack of tiny, exquisite chops. I sampled this last month, and it was superb.The menu allows you to chart paths of varying lengths, from three standard courses, each of which you choose, to a “gourmand” experience of 11 unspecified courses that Mr. Humm selects for you. But even the briefest route includes numerous detours, because he has a particular enthusiasm for succinct, intense add-ons to be experienced before or between the principal dishes.For example, every dinner begins with a five-piece row of single-bite amuse bouches, one with foie gras, another with salmon and another with sweetbreads nestled in a crunchy cornet.Some of his best work comes in small packages, like a cup of “sea urchin cappuccino” that was presented as a little surprise during a meal whose climax would be a flawlessly cooked blue foot chicken for two with a brioche, foie gras and truffle butter stuffing under the glistening skin.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe cappuccino’s inclusion of cauliflower mousse below a peekytoe crab salad, sea urchin roe and a sea urchin foam made with cream and Cognac seemed to allude to (and perhaps borrowed from) a famous Joël Robuchon dish of cauliflower cream, lobster and sea urchin.But Mr. Humm’s version was an altogether frothier and more indulgent affair, and whenever it threatened to become too much, a tart, astringent note flickered, reining everything in. The difference between good and great cooking of this kind is often knowing where the creamy, buttery, unctuous tipping point is — and stopping just shy of it. Mr. Humm does that expertly.Like so many practitioners of contemporary French cooking, he favors foams, bisques, gelées and such: in place of the sea urchin cappuccino one night was a smoked sturgeon sabayon, served in an eggshell.But Mr. Humm is mindful of the need for some textural contrast — some crunch. So a slow-poached egg with a brown butter hollandaise and a Parmesan foam boasted not only crisp, beautiful asparagus but also a Parmesan tuile. Its salty kick was another reason to have it around.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Some chefs and restaurants do better with meat than with fish, or vice versa, but that’s not the case here. I’m crazy for the lavender honey-glazed duck for two, but I’m just as crazy for the restaurant’s changing lobster dishes — one of the best has curried granola — and for its reliably moist, snowy halibut.I’m crazier still for the Hawaiian prawn roulade, an appetizer that tastes like a repurposed California roll with all of the glory and none of the gunk. Poached prawns are dressed with crème fraîche, diced green apple and lime juice and then molded into a thin horizontal column surfaced with thinly sliced, vivid avocado.Mr. Humm’s judicious flirtations with molecular gastronomy have intensified over the years, to exciting effect. One tomato salad comprised liquid spheres — those quivering, explosive orbs made famous by the Spanish wizard Ferran Adrià — of white buffalo mozzarella and red tomato. Another floated a fleecy tomato “cloud” (tomato water whipped with gelatin) over a patchwork of red and yellow cherry tomatoes.Mr. Humm supervises the sweets in addition to what precedes them, and with most he finds the right middle ground between hyper-imaginative artistry and molten chocolate pandering. Accessorizing the gooey chocolate centerpiece of one dessert with both caramel popcorn and a popcorn-flavored ice cream did that trick nicely.The $88 price of three courses plus all the little extras makes Eleven Madison Park more affordable than, for example, Le Bernardin or Daniel, and is a major reason I send people there more often.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBut I also send them because the large scale and hubbub of the room, connected to a lively bar area whose merriment spills into it, makes it seem less of a rapt, cinching commitment. Eleven Madison Park provides much of the ceremony and pampering associated with fine dining at its most traditional in a way that’s louder, looser and more in sync with most diners’ temperaments.By design it’s not quite as approachable as Gramercy Tavern or Union Square Cafe, Mr. Meyer’s more widely beloved mainstays. But with Mr. Humm, 32, at the helm, young and hungry and undistracted by the kind of empire that such elders as Jean-Georges Vongerichten and Daniel Boulud have created, it shimmers in a way that none of Mr. Meyer’s many terrific restaurants ever have. That’s saying a great deal, but no less than Eleven Madison has earned.Eleven Madison Park****11 Madison Avenue (24th Street); (212) 889-0905. elevenmadisonpark.comATMOSPHERE A soaring ceiling, enormous windows and terrazzo floors and walls create a sense of grand theatricality.SOUND LEVEL Moderately loud but manageable.RECOMMENDED DISHES Prawn roulade; farm egg with Parmesan foam; goat’s milk ricotta gnocchi; halibut; lobster; duck for two; chicken for two; suckling pig; vacherin; peanut butter and chocolate palette; chocolate tart with caramel.WINE LIST An international mix of classic and adventurous selections with scores of bottles under $80 but few under $50.PRICE RANGE Lunch two-course prix fixe, $28. Dinner three-course prix fixe, $88; five-course tasting menu, $125; eleven-course tasting, $175.HOURS Dinner 5:30 to 9:30 p.m. Monday to Thursday, and to 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday. Lunch noon to 2 p.m. Monday to Friday. Limited bar menu available between lunch and dinner.RESERVATIONS Call at least three weeks ahead for prime dinner times.CREDIT CARDS All major.WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Entrance, accessible restrooms and many tables at street level.WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.