4. Add one egg, beating thoroughly and rapidly with the spoon until it is well blended with the mixture. Add another egg, beat and so on. When all the eggs are added, fit a pastry bag with a round-tipped, number 6 pastry tube. Spoon the mixture into the bag. Holding the pastry bag straight up with the tip close to the floured surface of the pan, squeeze the bag to make mounds of pastry at intervals all over the pan. There should be about 24 mounds.5. The mounds may have pointed tips on top. To flatten these, wet a clean tea towel and squeeze it well. Open it up, fold it over in thirds. Hold it stretched directly over the mounds, quickly patting down just enough to rid the mounds of the pointed tips. Do not squash the mounds.6. Place the pan in the oven and bake 30 minutes or until the cream puffs are golden brown and cooked throughout. Remove and let cool. Yield: 24 cream puffs. Profiteroles aux crevettes a l'indienne (Cream puffs with curried shrimp filling) 3/4 pound fresh shrimp, shelled and deveined 1 tablespoon butter 3 tablespoons finely chopped onion 1 tablespoon curry powder 1 cup heavy cream 3 tablespoons finely chopped chutney Salt, if desired Freshly ground pepper 24 cream puffs (see recipe). 1. Cut the shrimp into half-inch or slightly smaller pieces. There should be about one and one-quarter cups. Set aside. 2. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the onion. Cook, stirring, until wilted. Add the curry powder and stir to blend. 3. Add the cream and chutney and cook down to about half a cup. Add salt and pepper to taste. Add the shrimp and cook, stirring, one or two minutes or until the shrimp lose their raw look throughout.4. Slice off the tops of all the cream puffs. Spoon an equal portion of the mixture into each cream-puff bottom. Replace the tops and serve.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Yield: 24 filled cream puffs. Profiteroles aux champignons (Cream puffs with mushrooms in Port wine filling) 2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon finely chopped shallots 3/4 pound mushrooms, cut into quarter-inch cubes, about 3 cups 2 tablespoons lemon juice Salt, if desired Freshly ground pepper 1/4 cup Port wine 1 cup heavy cream 24 cream puffs (see recipe).1. Melt the butter in a skillet and add the shallots. Cook briefly, stirring. 2. Add the mushrooms, lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Cook, stirring, until the liquid evaporates. Add the wine and cook until it is almost wholly evaporated.3. Add the cream and cook down about 10 minutes or until the mixture is reduced to two cups. 4. Slice off the tops of all the cream puffs. Spoon an equal portion of the mixture into each cream-puff bottom. Replace the tops and serve.Yield: 24 filled cream puffs. Profiteroles a la reine (Cream puffs with tarragon-flavored chicken-hash filling) 1 small, cooked chicken breast (see recipe) or use 1 1/2 cups leftover chicken, cut into cubes 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 1/2 cup chicken broth, fresh or canned 1/2 cup heavy cream Salt, if desired Freshly ground pepper Pinch of freshly grated nutmeg Pinch of cayenne pepper 2 teaspoons chopped fresh tarragon or 1 teaspoon dried 24 cream puffs (see recipe).Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Remove the skin and bones from the chicken breast and discard. Cut the meat into very small cubes. There should be about one and one-half cups. Set aside.2. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a wire whisk. When blended, add the broth, stirring rapidly with the whisk. When thickened and smooth, stir in the cream.3. Add salt and pepper to taste, nutmeg, cayenne and tarragon. Let simmer, stirring, about two minutes. 4. Add the chicken and stir. Bring to the boil. 5. Slice off the tops of all the cream puffs. Spoon an equal portion of the mixture into each cream-puff bottom. Replace the tops and serve.Yield: 24 filled cream puffs. Poitrine de volaille pochee (Poached chicken breast) 1 chicken breast, about 1 pound 2 cups water, approximately 1/4 cup coarsely chopped carrot 1/4 cup coarsely chopped onion 1/4 cup coarsely chopped celery 1 bay leaf 1/4 teaspoon dried thyme Salt, if desired Freshly ground pepper to taste 3 sprigs fresh parsley. 1. Put the chicken breast in a saucepan and add water to barely cover. Add the remaining ingredients. 2. Cover and bring to the boil. Let simmer 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and let stand until ready to use. Drain and reserve the broth for use in another dish. There should be about two cups. Yield: One poached chicken breast.