With much still unknown about Tuesday’s blasts and India’s own long history as a victim of terrorist violence — much of it predating the rise of global Islamist terrorist networks — it was impossible to draw immediate conclusions about the forces behind the attacks.For now, there was no concrete evidence linking Tuesday’s explosions in Mumbai to any particular group, nor any claim of responsibility. It was not clear how the bombs had been planted, what materials had been used, or whether they were the work of suicide bombers.The Indian prime minister, Manmohan Singh, urged calm and blamed unnamed “terrorists” for the attack. The prime minister, in a statement, described the attacks as “shocking and cowardly.”Earlier on Tuesday, a series of grenade explosions struck Srinagar, the summer capital of Indian-administered Kashmir, hitting a tourist bus. Eight people were killed and more than 40 wounded. The violence coincided with local elections in Pakistan-administered Kashmir. Both nations claim the Himalayan territory.“We will work to defeat the evil designs of terrorists and will not allow them to succeed,” Mr. Singh said in his statement.PhotoPravin Pereira, a graphic designer, was on his way from work when his train, which had stopped at Borivili station on the northern edge of the city, shook violently from a loud blast. The bomb had exploded three compartments ahead of him, in a men’s compartment of the 5:47 p.m. train out of the central station.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“The sound was terrible, really terrible,” Mr. Pereira, 33, said by telephone. “Everyone started running. There were a number of bodies lying there on the railway tracks.”Artie Jacinto, 41, was on her way home on a train that had just pulled out of the Matunga Road station when she heard the deafening sound of one blast, followed by the screams of the women around her.The train plunged into darkness, she said. She jumped out as quickly as she could, she recalled later by telephone. Strangers poured out of nowhere to help with rescue operations. She said she watched as a man poured cold water on the head of a badly wounded passenger.Mr. Shelke, the train guard, said he was in the last of nine compartments of Train No. 1748, from the Churchgate station, when he heard what he described as thunder and lightning. Then he saw bodies tumbling out of the train. He pulled the emergency brake and brought the train to a halt.The blast that hit Train No. 1748 — the first of the seven — struck shortly before 6:30 p.m. as the train pulled out of the station at Khar Road, a northern suburb, and rolled past the residential area of Santa Cruz.PhotoKalpana Gosalia, 53, a homemaker, rushed out to her balcony when she heard the blast. The sight before her was ghastly: the roof of the train had been blown off and bodies lay strewn on the railroad tracks. As evening fell, she strung a bright halogen lamp to a tree outside her balcony, to help the rescue efforts. Her daughter rushed down to help carry the wounded.Nizamuddin Sheikh, the manager of the nearby station at Santa Cruz, ran down to the tracks to carry the wounded and then scoop up valuables — purses, jewelry, papers. He said he locked them in his office.Well past midnight, under a steady drizzle, railway workers struggled to separate the bloodstained wreckage from the rest of the train, in an effort to open the tracks for Wednesday commuters. The gory detritus of the day littered the rails: shoes, plastic bags, water bottles and saris that were offered as stretchers.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.At the Lokmanya Tilak Medical College and Hospital, the dead lay swathed in sheets, waiting to be identified. There were 45 in all, some wounded beyond recognition. Ramesh Gandhi rushed in for signs of his cousin. The body of Manish Manihar, a newly married accountant on his way home, was found.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMumbai is no stranger to terrorist attacks. A pair of car bombs killed more than 50 people in August 2003. In March of that year, a bomb blast on a commuter train claimed a dozen lives. By far the deadliest attack in the nation’s history was in March 1993, when a series of 13 bomb blasts hit the stock exchange and other sites, leaving over 250 dead.Indian authorities have not said whether Tuesday’s episodes in Kashmir and Mumbai are linked. The pattern of the Mumbai train bombings, however, has fueled unsubstantiated speculation that Islamic militants, fighting Indian rule in Kashmir, could be behind the attacks.PhotoIt would not be the first time that Kashmiri militant outfits, which India says enjoy the support of rival Pakistan, have struck on Indian soil. The most serious of them, an attack on the Indian Parliament in the capital, New Delhi, in December 2001, prompted a military standoff between the nuclear-armed neighbors. India blamed the Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba.Since then, India and Pakistan have been engaged in a peace effort, though their fundamental difference over Kashmir is far from resolved.Officials in Washington said that it was too early to know definitively who was behind the bombings, but that there are suspicions that it was the work of Lashkar-e-Taiba.One counterterrorism official, who was granted anonymity to speak about the investigation into the bombings because it was in progress, said that if Lashkar-e-Taiba was indeed responsible, the attacks would be the most sophisticated and deadly that the group had yet carried out.“It would be a ramp-up of what they have pulled off before,” he said.Pakistan’s president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, condemned the attacks.In a statement, President Bush said, “The United States stands with the people and the government of India and condemns in the strongest terms these atrocities, which were committed against innocent people as they went about their daily lives.”India is increasingly allied with the United States, but it has resisted invitations to join the United States-led war in Iraq.