I call this preparation a ceviche, even though the conch -- or the calamari -- is cooked. But the cooking is minimal, just enough to sear the meat, give it crisp edges and bring out the flavor. The seasonings, a combination of onion, chilies, tomatoes, scallions, cilantro and lime, are typical of ceviche. I add my own touches to this mixture -- green picholine olives, for example, and extra virgin olive oil.I marinate the conch or the calamari briefly in a marinade that is suitable for any kind of seafood. The fresh thyme in it is typical of the Bahamas.After searing the conch, I set it aside for 20 to 30 minutes so it can relax a bit. It will give up some juices, which I add to the ceviche after I cut the conch up. After adding the seasonings, I serve the ceviche within 30 minutes at room temperature, for freshness. The mistake people make with ceviche is putting in too much acid: you lose the fresh taste of seafood.I spoon the ceviche into martini glasses and garnish it with endives or lettuce leaves. A dollop of avocado butter is the finishing touch. I purée ripe avocados and drizzle in some olive oil, just the way I'd make mayonnaise. A little lime juice helps keep the color bright. If it does not come together smoothly when you make it in your food processor, take a whisk to it for several seconds, and it will be as silken as mine.I like to serve a buttery chardonnay with this ceviche, as it complements the sweetness of the seafood.GRILLED CEVICHE WITH AVOCADO BUTTERTime: 1 hour 45 minutes1 1/2 pounds fresh Bahamian conch or cleaned calamari1/2 cup, plus 1 tablespoon fresh lime juice7 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil2 tablespoons dry white wineNewsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.1/4 cup minced red onion1 teaspoon fresh thyme leavesSalt and freshly ground black pepper1/4 cup minced red bell pepperAdvertisement Continue reading the main story1/4 cup minced tomato2 jalapeños, seeded and minced16 picholine olives, pitted and minced2 tablespoons minced scallion2 tablespoons minced cilantro leaves1 ripe Hass avocado6 leaves bibb lettuce.1. If you use conch, cut off hard narrow end, and discard or grind it for conch cakes or chowder. Slice meat in thirds on the bias, and pound each piece flat between sheets of waxed paper with a meat mallet. For calamari, remove tentacles, and discard or reserve to deep-fry. Cut bodies in half lengthwise, and lightly score surface in crisscross pattern with sharp knife.2. In a medium bowl combine 1/4 cup lime juice, 2 tablespoons olive oil, wine, half the onion, thyme and salt and pepper. Add conch or calamari. Marinate 30 minutes.3. Heat grill or stove-top grill pan. Grill conch or calamari about 20 seconds on each side, until lightly seared. Set aside on a plate, 20 to 30 minutes. Mince, and place in bowl with any juices from seafood.4. Add bell pepper, tomato, jalapeños, olives, scallions, cilantro and remaining red onion. Mix. Dish can be prepared up to this point, covered, and refrigerated.5. Lightly beat 1/4 cup lime juice and 2 tablespoons olive oil together, and add to seafood. Fold all ingredients together. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Set aside at room temperature until ready to serve, no more than 30 minutes.6. Halve and pit avocado. Remove flesh, chop, and place in food processor or blender with remaining tablespoon lime juice. Process until smooth, scraping sides of container from time to time. With machine running, drizzle in remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil. Scrape container, and process briefly until well blended. With food processor, mixture may look slightly separated: if so, transfer to a bowl, and beat vigorously with a small whisk about 30 seconds or until mixture is smooth. If you use a blender, you may have to scrape container more often, but mixture will emulsify better. Season to taste with salt. If not for immediate use, cover and refrigerate up to 1 hour. If mixture starts to separate, whisk again before serving.7. Place a lettuce leaf in each of 6 martini glasses or wine goblets. Spoon in conch or calamari mixture. Top each with dollop of avocado butter and serve.Yield: 6 servings.