“I don’t know whether it’s the state of politics and everything that’s going on at home and in Washington that has kind of distracted everyone, but I certainly don’t feel that it’s getting the attention that I would have expected for such a major event,” Mr. Piedra, 48, said.Patrick Hidalgo, 39, an entrepreneur who was director of the White House Business Council under President Barack Obama, suggested that some Cuban-Americans born in the United States are more concerned with what’s happening here than with Cuba’s future under a new president who is unlikely to veer from Raúl Castro’s hard line.“The problems in the U.S. are so significant that that’s what we’re more focused on. It affects our daily lives — health care, education, lack of jobs, lack of rising wages, authoritarian tendencies under our own leadership,” he said.At the Bay of Pigs ceremony, Victoria Armengol Gempton, 34, helped her two children, Emma, 6, and Charles, 3, lay flowers on the monument to the fallen. Four generations of her family — starting with Ms. Gempton’s grandmother, Myrna Millán, whose husband, Pepe, died in the invasion — continued the tradition of attending, as they did when Ms. Gempton was a child.“I want my kids to know what it’s like to fight for freedom,” she said.Brigade 2506 veterans greeted friends they had not seen in months or years, sometimes commenting on each other’s appearance and health. The priest who used to lead their Mass has developed Alzheimer’s and cannot deliver it anymore, said Felix Rodriguez, 77, cane in hand as he sat in a plastic white chair to protect his frail back.Mr. Rodriguez dismissed questions about the importance of Mr. Castro’s succession, calling Mr. Díaz-Canel’s selection political window-dressing.“We know that absolutely nothing is going to change. It’s going to be exactly the same,” said Mr. Rodriguez, a former C.I.A. agent who helped capture the Cuban revolutionary Che Guevara in Bolivia in 1967.“The Communist Party controls Cuba. Raúl Castro has put up a figurehead. The only time when there might possibly be a change is the day Raúl dies.”