Sewell Chan worked at The New York Times, as a reporter and editor, from 2004 to 2018.From 2015 to 2018, Mr. Chan served as international news editor, first in London and then New York. From London, he supervised coverage of major news events, including the migration crisis in Europe; terrorist attacks in Paris, Brussels and London; and Britain’s decision to leave the European Union. In New York, he helped extend the reach of Times journalism to new audiences.From 2011 to 2015, Mr. Chan was a deputy editor of the Op-Ed page and the Sunday Review section. He helped oversee a significant expansion in commentary, including the launch of the Op-Docs series and the recruitment of new contributing writers.Previously, Mr. Chan was a correspondent in Washington, writing about economic policy, and a metro reporter in New York, covering transportation and City Hall. He was the founding bureau chief of The Times’s local news blog, City Room, which shared in a Pulitzer Prize for breaking news coverage of a scandal that brought down Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York.Before joining The Times in 2004, Mr. Chan was a staff writer at The Washington Post, reporting on local government, education and social services, and helping to cover the Iraq war. He has also written for The Wall Street Journal and for The Philadelphia Inquirer.A native New Yorker, Mr. Chan grew up in an immigrant family in Flushing, Queens, and was the first in his family to finish college. He graduated from Harvard with a degree in social studies and received a master’s degree in politics from Oxford, where he studied on a British Marshall scholarship.Mr. Chan participated in the Rosalynn Carter Fellowships for Mental Health Journalism in 2003-04 and the Marshall Memorial Fellowship, organized by the German Marshall Fund of the United States, in 2012. He served on the National Advisory Board of the Poynter Institute from 2010 to 2013.Mr. Chan is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and serves on the board of incorporators of Harvard Magazine.