Mr. Yorkey’s script will also seem familiar to anyone who has watched the Lifetime channel’s inspirational dramas about mothers and daughters on the brink of sanity. (Since Lifetime is “television for women,” the fathers and sons tend to suffer on the sidelines.)PhotoLike them “Next to Normal” assesses the fragmenting effects of mental illness within a family. It also, in an honored tradition of all-American hometown weepers, makes a high school dance an acid test for a central character. And the lyrics traffic in Lifetime-style buzzwords. People sing with some regularity of wanting to “begin to heal,” and they ask questions like: “Who’s crazy: the one who’s uncured? Or maybe the one who’s endured?”What of course separates “Next to Normal” from a Lifetime movie is that these by-the-book declarations and questions are usually sung instead of spoken. And the difference therein is transformative enough to make “Next to Normal” of real value to anyone who cares about the direction and possibilities of the American musical.One of the show’s strengths is its sly staggering of information about its characters. And since I’ve already spoiled one revelation — that Diana (Ms. Ripley) is manic-depressive, which we don’t learn until 10 minutes or so into the show — I promise not to mention the story’s other significant surprise, which comes later.Anyway, if I tell you many of the plot’s specifics, you’ll groan and decide not to see “Next to Normal.” Suffice it to say that it’s principally about Diana’s illness and how those who love her deal with it.That means her husband, Dan (Mr. d’Arcy James), and her teenage son and daughter, Gabe and Natalie, affectingly played by Aaron Tveit and Jennifer Damiano. The cast is rounded out by Adam Chanler-Berat, who plays Henry, Natalie’s devoted boyfriend; and Asa Somers, who portrays two of Diana’s ultimately clueless doctors.Much of what happens is schematic to the point of — you should pardon the word — madness. This includes the paralleling of Dan and Diana’s marriage with Natalie and Henry’s lopsided relationship; Natalie’s rigid quest for perfection in school because she can’t have it at home; and the symbolic problems generated by treatment-induced memory loss.PhotoBut Mr. Kitt’s music, far superior to his score for the recent Broadway clunker “High Fidelity,” has a seared sweetness that evokes layers of conflicted feelings, particularly of warring anger and love. And he takes advantage of the regulation blueprint book to create sharp geometric counterpoints among the characters in song.Advertisement Continue reading the main storySometimes these lean toward gooey, big-voiced sentimentality (as in the finale, which repeats “Let there be light” at over-amped volume until you’re worn to a pulp). But Mr. Kitt works adroitly in a number of musical idioms here, from country-western ballads (for Diana’s elegy to the heady highs of her illness) to stadium power-rock (for — gulp! — the electro-shock sequence).Ms. Ripley (“Side Show,” “The Dead”) and Mr. d’Arcy James (“Titanic,” “The Sweet Smell of Success”) do their best work to date here. Ms. Ripley reveals a gleaming sardonic side that captures Diana’s wry detachment from herself while never trivializing the hurt and bewilderment at her core. Mr. d’Arcy James, in excellent voice, summons an embattled strength that makes Dan the show’s true emotional anchor. Both performances stay with you, and they only get better in memory.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Greif, who showed admirable sensitivity in conjuring the bizarre world of the shut-ins of “Grey Gardens,” skillfully steers his cast away from the shallows of triteness and the wilder shores of comic exaggeration. Mark Wendland’s multi-tiered set and Kevin Adams’s lighting create a sense of imprisonment without overdoing it. Similarly, Sergio Trujillo’s musical staging stays shy of ain’t-it-a-hoot? hysteria, even with a dance involving pill-proffering pharmacologists.At one point a numbed Diana sings about how much she misses the dizzy highs of her nonmedicated state. They justify, she says, the contrasting plunges into darkness. Whether all theatergoers will feel the same about the ups and downs of “Next to Normal” is questionable. But the highs are definitely there to be savored.NEXT TO NORMALMusic by Tom Kitt; book and lyrics by Brian Yorkey; directed by Michael Greif; musical staging by Sergio Trujillo; sets by Mark Wendland; costumes by Jeff Mahshie; lighting by Kevin Adams; sound by Brian Ronan; musical director, Mary-Mitchell Campbell; orchestrations by Michael Starobin and Mr. Kitt; vocal arrangements by AnnMarie Milazzo. Presented by the Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director. At Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Manhattan; (212) 246-4422. Through March 9. Running time: 2 hours 20 minutes.WITH: Adam Chanler-Berat (Henry), Jennifer Damiano (Natalie), Brian d’Arcy James (Dan), Alice Ripley (Diana), Asa Somers (Dr. Madden/Dr. Fine) and Aaron Tveit (Gabe).