It would appear that Mr. Mesnier enjoys his own handiwork, but he insists he does not eat a lot of sweets. ''I taste everything, but I do like the wine people do,'' he said. ''I spit it out.''Mrs. Reagan insists on sampling everything that will be served at official dinners. The executive chef, Henry Haller, presents the dinner at a tasting lunch; the pastry chef, the dessert. The First Lady had Mr. Mesnier make one dessert five times. It was for the dinner in honor of Prince Charles. The chef had fashioned a crown of red, white and blue ice cream. In the center he had placed three feathers - part of the Prince's coat of arms - made of blown sugar.''Mrs. Reagan wanted the head of the feathers to be as fine as real feathers,'' the chef recounted as he pulled the spun-sugar clouds for an angel to stand on. ''It's the kind of challenge the 37-year-old pastry chef loves. ''That's the most exciting part -where people know what they want,'' he said.What Mrs. Reagan wants is lightness. ''Even if I make a tart,'' Mr. Mesnier said, ''I make it thinner, just a coating of fruit, no apricot glaze.''While the Reagans' Christmas dinner in the White House will have the old-fashioned turkey, giblet gravy, chestnut stuffing and candied sweet potatoes with marshmallows, the dessert will be a decidedly untraditional version of a Yule log, usually made with a genoise that is rolled, filled and frosted with butter cream. This Yule log will be made with graduated layers of meringue and kirsch-flavored pistachio ice cream, covered with chocolate ganache, semisweet chocolate melted and mixed with heavy cream, The decorations, always edible - Mr. Mesnier makes no other kind - will be marzipan angels, leaves, snowmen, stars, candles, Santas and mushrooms.The chef's version of Croquembouche de Noel resembles in shape only the traditional conical layers of pastry-cream-filled pate a choux. It is made of three graduated layers of genoise, each molded in an orange Bavarian cream. After the tiers are assembled, they are decorated with sugar-glazed orange segments and glazed orange peel, cut angel-hair thin. ''My desserts never look the same twice,'' the chef said proudly. ''If I do the same thing, I vary the presentation.''Fruits are used in many desserts. The Christmas angel is a mold of coconut ice cream filled with raspberry sherbet. It's this same coconut ice cream recipe that the President asked for several times while he was recuperating in the hospital from his wound.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Mesnier learned his trade in France and Germany, at the Savoy Hotel in London, as the head pastry chef at the Hotel George V and as the corporate pastry chef for the Princess Hotels in Bermuda where he met both his wife, Martha, and Chef Haller. His only other job in the United States was at The Homestead in Hot Springs, Va.Detail is one of the reasons Mr. Mesnier likes working at the White House. ''Here on a slow day or for a small party you can go down to the finest detail,'' he said. ''You would never do that at a hotel or in your own shop. Presentation is as important as flavor.'' In his classes at L'Academie de Cuisine in suburban Bethesda, Md., he devotes much of his teaching to detail work.Mr. Mesnier has always emphasized a preference for working alone. ''At a hotel the food doesn't come out just the way I want because other people do it, but at the White House it does, because I do it myself,'' he said. ''I am a very difficult man when it comes to food.''Mr. Mesnier's dream is to open ''a small, exclusive shop.'' ''My place would not be a cheap place,'' he said. ''It would have very, very little staff, because if I have something made by someone else, it will not be the same.''Even a good cookie is a challenge,'' the pastry chef said. ''With three people here we all bake the cookie, and it will come out different. Someone will understand the ingredients better and therefore will produce something better.''Mr. Mesnier left no doubt whose cookies would be the best.These recipes were adapted with the help of Rose Levy Beranbaum of the Cordon Rose Cooking School in Manhattan. Yule Log Meringue: 1 cup egg whites (about 8) 1 pound granulated sugar (2 1/3 cups).1. Mix egg whites and sugar over hot water in top of double boiler until warm.2. Remove and beat with mixer until cold and stiff, about five minutes. Using No. 8 tube (five-eighths-inch wide) pipe onto parchment paper eight 15-inch-long rows that touch each other. Then pipe six touching rows 15 inches long; then four, then two.3. Bake at 175 to 200 degrees for about two hours until hard but not colored. Pistachio Ice Cream 8 egg yolks 3 ounces finely ground unsalted pistachio nuts 7 ounces (1 cup) sugar 3 cups half and half 3/4 cup heavy cream 9 drops green food coloring 2 tablespoons kirsch.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Mix pistachios, sugar and yolks. Bring half and half to boil; pour into pistachio mixture. Stir over medium heat until mixture thickens. Do not boil.2. Strain; cool. Add cream, coloring and kirsch; freeze in ice cream freezer or refrigerator freezer. Chocolate Ganache 1 cup heavy cream 1 pound semisweet chocolate, finely chopped1. Scald cream. Remove from heat; stir in chocolate. Decorations for log: 1 cup heavy cream, whipped Green food coloring Marzipan santas, stars etc.1. Place the longest meringue on a tray. Spread with an equal thickness of ice cream. Top with next largest meringue, then ice cream. Repeat using all meringues, ending with meringue. Freeze until firm.2. Smooth a thin layer of whipped cream over log. (Use food coloring to tint remaining cream for leaves on log). Spread the chocolate on all sides of log, and make lines with fork to resemble bark. With whipped cream, pipe leaves; decorate with marzipan. Freeze until serving time.To serve, leave at room temperature for 30 minutes.Yield: 16 servings. Pumpkin Cake 2 cups flour 2 teaspoons baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons cinnamon 1 teaspoon cloves 1 teaspoon nutmeg 4 eggs 2 cups sugar 1 cup vegetable oil 2 cups unsweetened pumpkin puree (canned) 12-ounce jar apricot preserves Roulade (see recipe) Meringue mushrooms (see recipe).1. Stir dry ingredients together.2. Cream eggs, sugar and oil. Add pumpkin; mix well. Add dry ingredients; beat until mixed.3. Bake cakes at 350 degrees in two greased and floured eight- or nine-inch ring molds for 30 to 35 minutes. Cool; remove from pans.Advertisement Continue reading the main story4. Heat apricot preserves; sieve and stir in 2 tablespoons water; brush on cake. Decorate with roulades around the outside and brush with glaze.5. Fill center with meringue mushrooms and decorate with marzipan stars, if desired.Yield: Each cake serves 10. Roulade 4 egg yolks 4 ounces (9 tablespoons) sugar Rind of one-half lemon, grated 4 egg whites 3 ounces ( 3/4 cup) flour 3/4 cup raspberry jam 6 tablespoons chopped toasted almonds.1. Beat well yolks with half the sugar and lemon rind. Beat whites with remaining sugar until stiff. Fold the flour into the yolks. Fold and stir a quarter of the whites into the yolks. Carefully pour this mixture into the remaining whites and fold very carefully.2. Spread on 10-by-15-inch jelly roll pan which has been lined with parchment, and bake at 400 degrees for 10 minutes or until golden brown and cake springs back when lightly touched in center.3. Remove and turn out onto cloth towel. Remove parchment and roll up tightly with towel; cool. Unroll; spread with raspberry jam. Roll up tightly the long way as for jelly roll.4. Cut into 1/2-inch thick slices and roll each slice in almonds. Meringue MushroomsUse a quarter of meringue recipe given under Yule Log. Stems: Using a 1/2-inch diameter tube (No. 6), pipe cone-shaped stems about three-quarter-inch high onto parchment. Bake at 175 to 200 degrees for two hours to harden without coloring Caps: Place parchment paper on quite wet baking sheet. With same tube, pipe 12 rounds onto parchment and bake 10 to 15 minutes until the meringues are firm enough to lift up but still quite soft. Push the tops down gently on top of the stems and return finished mushrooms to oven. Bake at 140 to 150 degrees for about 45 minutes, until firm. Yuletide Angel Coconut ice cream: 3 cups half and half 6 ounces shredded sweetened coconut 3 1/2 ounces sugar (1/2 cup) 1 tablespoon canned cream of coconut 8 egg yolks 1/4 cup heavy cream.1. Scald coconut with half and half. Strain and squeeze coconut to remove liquid; discard coconut.2. Mix sugar with cream of coconut and yolks; mix in half and half. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens. Do not boil. Add heavy cream and freeze in ice cream freezer to form soft ice cream. Raspberry sherbet: 1 cup raspberry puree, from three 10-ounce packages frozen raspberries, defrosted, drained and sieved 1/2 cup water 5 ounces sugar (3/4 cup) 2 tablespoons lemon juice.1. Mix ingredients and freeze in ice cream freezer to form soft sherbet. To complete angel:Marzipan head, wings, mouth, eyes, halo and candle Six-inch diameter sponge cake base Whipped cream for arms, piped with No. 7 tube Coconut for hair and skirt fringe To assemble: Coat a 5 1/2- to six-inch diameter and seven-inch deep cone-shaped mold (chinois wrapped in foil or croquembouche mold) with one inch of coconut ice cream. Fill the center with raspberry sherbet; freeze for 24 hours. Remove from mold and place on cake base. Decorate with whipped cream and marzipan.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyChef Mesnier uses spun sugar as clouds on which the angel stands. Yield: One angel. Croquembouche de NoelLayers of 9, 7 and 4 inches are needed. To make 9- and 4-inch layers, double following recipe. (Enough batter is left over for a 6-inch layer to be used for Yuletide Angel.) Genoise: 4 eggs 4 ounces (9 tablespoons) sugar 2 ounces butter, clarified 3/4 teaspoon vanilla 4 ounces (1 cup) cake flour.1. Line seven-inch pan with parchment or wax paper; grease and flour sides and bottom.2. Whisk eggs and sugar in mixing bowl over simmering water, until lukewarm. With mixer, beat at high speed until tripled in volume, about 5 minutes. Lower speed for one minute.3. Heat clarified butter; add vanilla. Remove about one cup egg mixture and whisk into butter.4. Sift flour over remaining batter in two stages, folding after each addition. Add reserved butter mixture and fold in gently.5. Pour mixture into pan and tap twice to release air bubbles.6. Bake at 350 degrees for 25 to 30 minutes or until sides pull away from pan and center springs back when pressed lightly. Turn out at once on greased racks; cool.Yield: seven-inch single layer. Orange Bavarian: 10 egg yolks 8 ounces (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons) sugar 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin Rind of three oranges 1 quart half and half 26 drops yellow food coloring 13 drops red food coloring 3 cups heavy cream, whipped stiff.1. Beat together yolks, sugar and gelatin until light.2. Bring half and half to boil with orange rind; discard rind; stir half and half into yolk mixture. Heat until slightly thickened. Do not boil. Strain and stir in coloring. Cool.3. Stir over ice until mixture begins to thicken and mounds slightly when dropped from spoon. At once fold in whipped cream thoroughly. Sugar-glazed orange segments: 48 small navel orange segments 1 pound sugar (21/3 cups) 1 cup water 1 tablespoon corn syrup.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Detach segments without breaking skin. Dry for 24 hours on cloth. 2. Just before assembling cake, cook sugar, water and corn syrup to hard crack stage, 300 to 310 degrees, in two batches. Dip half of segment into sugar syrup; cool, dip other half.3. Place segments on oiled pan. Glazed orange peel: Zest of four oranges 1 cup water 3/4 cup sugar 1 tablespoon corn syrup 5 drops red food coloring.1. Peel oranges with zester into strips as fine as angel's hair. Cook in 2 cups water for about five minutes. Rinse under cool water.2. Bring water, sugar and syrup to boil; add peel, cook 5 to 8 minutes. Add food coloring. Allow orange peel to cool in syrup. Drain in strainer.To assemble the dessert:1. Trim each cake layer so it is one inch smaller in diameter than pan in which it was baked. Then cut enough of each layer off so that the layers are 1/2 inch shorter than their pans.2. Line bottoms of genoise pans with parchment. Pour enough Bavarian into each pan to fill 3/4 full, and place layer of cake in each pan, pushing down until top of the cake layer is even with the Bavarian. Weight with flat plate. Refrigerate overnight.To serve, run spatula around sides and unmold nine-inch layer and place on serving plate. Unmold seven-inch cake on another plate and with wide spatula transfer to top of nine-inch layer; repeat with four-inch layer. Decorate with 12 vertical rows of sugar-glazed orange segments, four segments in each row from top to bottom. Between rows, sprinkle candied orange peel. Arrange meringue mushrooms (see pumpkin cake for recipe) around bottom of cake. If desired, add stars, candles, holly and poinsettias made of marzipan.Yield: 10 servings.