And it may be Moscow, but developers promote an important feature in these new houses — central air-conditioning. American brands.In fact, the list of products that speak to the American middle-class lifestyle and have gained popularity in Russia is long. Procter & Gamble has one of its fastest-growing subsidiaries here, selling — and widely advertising — products like Tide, Pampers and Head & Shoulders.McDonald’s and Starbucks continue to spread. So does Amway, that touchstone of American living-room marketing. Sales of its Nutrilite dietary supplements leaped 34 percent in 2009 in Russia from the previous year, despite the financial crisis.“It used to be that these sleepers and spies were sent back and they were submerged into the gray Soviet reality after the bright West,” said Sergei Chertoprud, a Moscow historian who studies the Soviet intelligence services. “But now, these people today will be able to resettle not as intelligence officers but as average Russian citizens. Basically, they will be able to get what they had in the West.”Or maybe not. There is also the matter of political freedoms. It is not clear how much the faux Americans engaged in politics in the United States, but it is harder here to get your voice heard. While Russians no longer endure Soviet-type control, the Kremlin still dominates.And despite gains in the last decade, widespread economic inequality persists. Moscow, St. Petersburg and a few other cities are far wealthier than the rest of the land. So there is less opportunity for mobility.PhotoMany former spies in the Soviet era felt less deprived of goods — they received more privileges than typical Soviet citizens — than of connections to the lives they once had. The Soviet government was suspicious about their loyalties and kept them far away from foreigners and even foreign newspapers.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe new arrivals will probably have it much easier. If Donald Howard Heathfield (now known as Andrey Bezrukov) wants to check in with his pals in the Boston area, he can conduct a video chat by walking into the nearest Internet cafe in Moscow. The F.S.B., the main successor to the K.G.B., may discourage him and the others from doing so, but it will be hard pressed to stop them, short of arresting them. The Internet in Russia is generally not censored.Anna Chapman, the 28-year-old whose attractiveness put her at the center of much media coverage, will have every opportunity to stay in the spotlight. Russian tabloids and Internet sites have shown as much interest in her as their counterparts in New York and London.“They will be able to do whatever they want, without limits — short of disclosing any intelligence secrets that they might know,” said Pyotr Gavrish, editor of Razvedka (Reconnaissance), an independent magazine about the intelligence services. “And Chapman, she has turned into this kind of media virus that shows no signs of stopping. In Russia, as abroad, there is no such thing as bad P.R.”“This is a very new kind of spy situation, but one we are going to have to get used to,” he said.While the former spies may not be jarred themselves, some have children, and they will be. It is unclear whether the children speak Russian (or even knew their parents were Russian).The Russian public education system can seem like a throwback. Public schools tend to be more academically rigorous than those in America, but they also rely more on rote learning and frown on individualism. Like the country in general, they are sometimes plagued by corruption, with educators demanding expensive gifts from parents for favorable treatment.“The kids may experience culture shock,” said Masha Charnay, 24, a freelance journalist who moved from Moscow to the Bronx at 13, and moved back here in 2008. “My teachers here were extremely Soviet, and extremely corrupt. That is one of the reasons that I left Moscow.”Moscow does have several English-language private schools, which are largely for children of expatriates. But some Russians send their children, including some who were once abroad.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFor now, it seems as if the repatriates are in seclusion while intelligence officials question them. And then they will venture into a country that has changed rapidly in recent years. The question is whether the new face of Russia will be enough to allow them to forget the old days. Not everyone is convinced.“I think that they will still have a lot of discomfort,” said Aleksandr Kolpakidi, an intelligence historian in Moscow. “They lived so many years in America. And we still have a massive number of problems here.”“So, in the end, I think that they will want to go back. To America.”