But worldwide, it is Americans who eat the most of this heavenly stuff. We devour some 43 billion scoops per year; that's 22 quarts of ice cream, sherbet and ices per person. Over the past few years, we have thrown into ice cream everything from cookies and candies to peanut butter. We serve it with cake, fruit and chocolate, and eat it out of sugar cones, cake cones, gaufrettes and now ''pretzel'' cones. Wines and spirits are no strangers to ice cream, either. (If wine drunk with ice cream appeals, take your cue from the Italians, who insist on sweet Verduzzo and Sciacchetra; certainly there is Beaumes-de-Venise from Provence, as well.) Pears poached in Sauternes, prunes preserved in Armagnac, figs poached in sweetly spiced zinfandel and herbs such as rosemary, lavender and thyme have all been stirred into ice cream.WHAT HAS given free rein to the experiments and inventiveness of cooks is the ice-cream maker. Though the Cadillac of today's machines is the Minigel by Ugolini & Company from Milan (an item that goes for the soaring price of $550), there are more affordable models, such as the Donvier, that simply require freezing the container overnight; after that, a turn or two of the handle every five minutes or so gives you homemade ice cream in 20 minutes or less. At about $30 for the pint-size model and $40 for the quart, you can make ice cream all summer long. The Donvier holds the ice cream without refrigeration long enough to take it on a picnic lunch or supper. To store ice cream in the freezer, pack it in plastic containers, otherwise your efforts will turn to stone. When following ice-cream recipes, fill the container only two-thirds full to allow for the increase in bulk as the mixture churns. This applies to both electric and hand-turned machines.I am partial to both the Ugolini and the Donvier machines - the less expensive model, because it is simple and convenient, and the de luxe, because the ice cream can be made and held during dinner with a texture that is sublime. It also saved a dinner party when a friend, realizing that he had forgotten to prepare a dessert, just poured a chilled bottle of sweet wine into the machine and in no time was refreshing us with wine ice. The following uncomplicated recipes are as good as tradition gets. Before you begin, make sure that your ingredients are ice-cold. Depending on the capacity of your machine, the recipes may have to be churned in batches. MINT ICE CREAM 3 cups milk 3/4 cup sugar 1 inch vanilla bean split or 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 egg yolks 1 bunch fresh mint leaves (about 1 cup), washed, dried and chopped 1 cup heavy cream.1. In a heavy saucepan, scald the milk over medium-low heat with the sugar and vanilla bean, stirring with a wooden spoon until the sugar desolves. (If using extract, do not add it at this stage; wait until after chilling the mixture.)2. In a large bowl, whisk the egg yolks until they coat the whisk.3. Slowly whisk the scalded milk mixture into the beaten yolks.4. Add the mint leaves and steep until the mixture cools.5. Remove the vanilla bean and scrape the seeds into the mixture.6. Strain the mixture through a fine sieve, pressing down on the leaves to extract all the moisture, and discard the mint.Advertisement Continue reading the main story7. Add the heavy cream, cover the bowl completely and chill.8. Freeze according to the manufacturer's directions, then transfer to air-tight containers for storage.Yield: Six to eight servings. FIG AND PISTACHIO ICE CREAM Prepare the ice-cream base, exclusive of the mint, as it appears in the preceding recipe and chill. 1 cup pistachio nuts, shelled 1 pound small figs (you may use green or black).1. Bring a saucepan of water to the boil, add the nuts and boil for one minute, then rinse under cold running water. Remove and discard the outer skins and place the nuts on a paper towel.2. Trim the stems and peel the outer skins of the figs, quarter and then roughly chop or mash them. Place them in a bowl, cover tightly and chill.3. Chop the nuts.4. Churn the prepared ice-cream base in the ice-cream maker for about five minutes.5. Mix the nuts with the figs and fold into the cream. Continue to freeze according to the manufacturer's directions, then transfer to air-tight containers for storage.Yield: Eight to 10 servings. BANANA YOGURT ICE CREAM 4 ripe bananas 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 1/2 cup sugar 2 cups yogurt 1 cup heavy cream.1. In a small bowl, mash the bananas until smooth or puree them in a blender or food processor.2. Fold in the lemon juice, sugar and yogurt.3. Cover tightly and refrigerate.4. In a chilled bowl, beat the cream until it falls in soft peaks.5. Churn the banana mixture in the ice-cream maker for about three minutes.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.6. Add the whipped cream and freeze according to the manufacturer's directions, then transfer to air-tight containers for storage.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyYield: About one quart. ORANGE ICE CREAM 4 to 5 navel oranges (enough for 1 cup of juice), plus oranges for serving shells (see note) 1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice 2 cups milk 2 cups heavy cream 4 egg yolks 1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract.1. Remove the peel from one orange, including a little of the white pith.2. Cut the peel into quarter-inch lengths and then into quarter-inch squares.3. Place the peel in a saucepan with water to cover and boil for 10 minutes.4. Rinse under cold running water, drain, then repeat the process.5. When thoroughly drained, mix the peel with one-third cup of sugar in a small bowl and reserve.6. Juice the oranges, add the lemon juice and chill.7. In a heavy saucepan, scald the milk, cream and remaining sugar over medium-low heat. Stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is desolved.8. In a large bowl, whisk the egg yolks until they coat the whisk.9. Slowly whisk the scalded milk mixture into the beaten yolks, strain and allow to cool, stirring from time to time.10. When the mixture is cool, add the vanilla and chill thoroughly.11. Stir the juice into the base mixture and churn in the ice-cream maker for about five minutes.12. Drain the sweetened orange peel with a slotted spoon, fold into the mixture and freeze according to the manufacturer's directions.Advertisement Continue reading the main story13. Pack into air-tight containers and freeze or scoop into frozen orange shells and freeze until ready to serve.Yield: Six to eight servings or about 10 shells.Note: To make the orange shells, slice off the the top quarter of the orange. Carefully remove the pulp from the oranges, leaving the pith and skin intact. Drain the pulp through a sieve over a bowl and press the pulp gently to extract all the juice. Reserve one cup of the juice for the ice cream and the remainder for another use. Put the orange shells and tops in a plastic bag and freeze. When the ice cream is made, spoon it into the shells, cap and freeze until ready to serve.To make lemon ice cream, follow the above recipe, substituting a half-cup of lemon juice for the one cup of orange juice. PEACH AND MACAROON ICE CREAM 1 quart milk 1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1 1/2 to 2 pounds ripe peaches, blanched, peeled and pits removed 1/2 lemon, juiced 3/4 cup Amaretto cookies or dry macaroons.1. In a heavy saucepan, scald the milk over medium low heat with two-thirds of a cup of sugar, stirring with a wooden spoon until the sugar dissolves.2. When the mixture is cool, add the vanilla, cover tightly and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled.3. Prepare the peaches, slice them into a bowl, add the lemon juice and mash them with a fork.4. Stir in the remaining sugar, or a little more, depending on the sweetness of the fruit.5. Cover tightly and refrigerate.6. Break up the cookies and crush in a food processor or blender until the mixture reaches a sandy consistency.7. Churn the milk base mixture in the ice-cream maker for about five minutes.8. Add the mashed peaches and continue churning another five minutes.9. Add the cookie crumbs and continue freezing according to the manufacturer's directions. Transfer to air-tight containers for storage.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyYield: Ten to 12 servings.Note: Fresh apricots may be substituted for peaches. Amaretto cookies are a superior ingredient when making this dessert.