The plan, according to City Hall, is to use $16 million — the equivalent of the proceeds that the Department of Citywide Administrative Services accepted in exchange for lifting the deed restriction last year — to build a new center at 30 Pike Street on land owned by the city and used by the Environmental Protection Department as a repair yard. The total cost of construction could exceed that amount, though Eric Phillips, a spokesman for the mayor, said it was “not expected to be substantially more.”Mr. Shorris’s testimony followed reports from two inquiries by the Investigation Department and by the city comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, as well as supplementary materials in the form of emails, memos and other records related to the decision to sell Rivington House to a for-profit nursing home company, Allure Group, in 2015. After paying the city to remove the deed restriction, which had limited the property’s use to nonprofit health care services, the company sold the building to a luxury condominium developer for $116 million.Councilman Ben Kallos of Manhattan asked why Mr. Shorris had not followed up to make sure his decision — that the center should remain a nursing home — had been observed.“Council member, the government is large and we have very excellent staff,” Mr. Shorris said. “I don’t personally execute the decisions I make.” He said no one had been disciplined over the matter.Mr. de Blasio, a Democrat, has said that he learned of the issue with Rivington House from news reports in late March. But Mr. Shorris testified that he informed the mayor of the issue after requesting in late February that the Investigation Department begin its inquiry. Mr. Phillips, the mayor’s spokesman, later said that those two events were contemporaneous and occurred in late March.The City Council hearing, which finally took place after a several-month delay, did not include testimony from Stacey Cumberbatch, the former head of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services. Ms. Cumberbatch left that post in January, two months after the city lifted the deed restriction and weeks after anger over the nursing home’s fate began percolating.Mr. Shorris said her departure had nothing to do with Rivington House, though he pointedly did not answer a yes-or-no question as to whether she was asked to step down, saying only that he had approved her leave and move to NYC Health & Hospitals. (She has since retired.)