Mr. Volpe would not be more specific about his reasons for dismissing Miss Battle. But several people at the Met, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the problems began when Miss Battle objected to attending the two or three daily rehearsals that are typical in the weeks before a production opens. When the schedule was revamped to suit her, they said, she arrived late, left early or did not show up at all. She is said to have demanded that other singers leave the rehearsals when she was singing, and was described as having been "very nasty" to members of the cast.The production is to open on Monday with Harolyn Blackwell substituting for Miss Battle.Almost exactly a year ago, Miss Battle stormed out of a rehearsal of "Der Rosenkavalier" at the Met after a dispute with the conductor, Christian Thielemann, and told Mr. Volpe that if he did not come to her dressing room to hear her complaints within five minutes, she would withdraw from the production. Mr. Volpe did not appear, and she quit. Stories Circulate QuicklyA few months earlier, when Miss Battle opened the Boston Symphony Orchestra season, she reportedly banned an assistant conductor and other musicians from her rehearsals, changed hotels several times, and left behind what a report in The Boston Globe called "a froth of ill will." Record executives have complained that her demands to have her cover photographs retouched or reshot have delayed the release of her recordings and played havoc with scheduling. Indeed, stories of her backstage tantrums travel through the music world at lightning speed.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The current clash recalls the confrontations between Maria Callas and Rudolf Bing in the late 1950's, particularly Mr. Bing's 1958 public dismissal of the soprano. But there are differences. The Callas-Bing dispute was over a contractual point, not over Callas's behavior at rehearsals. Also, Callas was at the peak of her career. Miss Battle, who is 45, has lost some of the freshness that once made her so valuable in ingenue roles.Disputes between singers and managers sometimes seem part of the fabric of the opera world. Maria Ewing, James McCracken and Eva Marton have all stormed out of the Met when coveted roles or broadcast performances were given to other singers. But it is rare for a company to publicly question a star's professionalism. The most famous recent case was Luciano Pavarotti's dismissal from the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1989 after a dispute about the frequency of his cancellations.Miss Battle was born in Portsmouth, Ohio, and was a music teacher in a Cincinnati elementary school before she had her earliest break as a singer. That came in 1972, when she auditioned for Thomas Schippers, the director of the Cincinnati Symphony and the Spoleto Festival, who hired her for a series of performances. A year later, James Levine heard her at the Cincinnati May Festival, and began engaging her when he appeared as guest conductor around the country.She came to New York in 1975 to sing in the Broadway production of Scott Joplin's opera "Treemonisha," and in 1976 she made her debut at the New York City Opera, as Susanna in "Le Nozze di Figaro." Mr. Levine brought her to the Met as the Shepherd in Wagner's "Tannhauser" in 1977. Her pure, clear tone immediately impressed opera fans starved for distinctive singing, and she quickly found herself in demand in opera houses all over the world.What effect her dismissal from the Met will have on her career is uncertain. Her recordings continue to sell in vast quantities, and as one of the few opera stars who is a household name, she is still a hot commodity at the box office and consequently is in demand as a soloist.Mr. Volpe, when asked whether he was likely to invite Miss Battle back to the Met, said: "I never say never. I don't want to say that this break is forever."