And while the first movie was all about the blondes, Mr. Whitty has found a clever way to spread the story more equally between the two schools. Campbell (Taylor Louderman), in the equivalent of the Kirsten Dunst role in the first film, is head cheerleader at the more wealthy and white Truman High until a sudden quirk of redistricting forces her to attend nearby Jackson High, which doesn’t even have a squad. Horrors!Along with her fellow redistrictee, the plump, cheery misfit Bridget (a terrific Ryann Redmond), who has always been relegated to the humiliating role of Bucky the Parrot (the school mascot), Campbell has to find her way in this strange new environment, where pep is a dirty word, and the campus is ruled by the imperious Danielle (Adrienne Warren), who leads a dance crew. Danielle establishes her contempt for Campbell’s driving passion in the lively number “We Ain’t No Cheerleaders,” backed up by her sassy fellow crew members Nautica (Ariana DeBose) and La Cienega (Gregory Haney).That La Cienega happens to be a drag queen, and yet is firmly part of the in crowd at this supposedly tough school, establishes pretty clearly the fantasy universe in which “Bring It On” takes place. This never-never land is the same setting for its small-screen equivalents, like the hugely popular “High School Musical” and the TV series “Glee.”The musical hopscotches through familiar territory as Campbell, once the queen bee and now the misfit, finds a way to bond with Danielle and persuade her to transform the crew into a cheer outfit. “Bring It On” also takes time, in a second act that could use some trimming, to squeeze in budding romances for Campbell and Bridget, apparently de rigueur material for any entertainment set among the newly hormone-riddled.Mr. Whitty provides lots of choice lines for the snarky Skylar of the Truman squad, played with sugary malice by a very amusing Kate Rockwell. “I am so upset I am actually going to go eat something,” she pouts after a setback. And he writes funny for the goofy Bridget, suddenly bewildered to find herself attracting a boy’s attention.Photo“I’m confused,” she tells Nautica. “Which makes me neurotic and weird, which could lead to my own very special episode of ‘Hoarders’ by the time I’m 21.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe plot is further dressed up with a forgivable swipe from “All About Eve,” wherein Campbell’s young protégée, Eva (Elle McLemore, glinting with ambition beneath a cosmetic layer of sweetness), schemes to manipulate her way to the top of the cheer pyramid.After an opening number that truly dazzles as it reveals the cast’s impressive gymnastic prowess, the score hits its stride only when Campbell transfers to Jackson High. Driven by surging R&B grooves and churning lyrics that suggest the fingerprints of Mr. Miranda, whose rap-inflected score was the key ingredient in the success of “In the Heights,” the dance numbers for the Jackson crowd kick the musical into high gear for most of the first act.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The second act features more routine if proficient songs, like the love duet for Campbell and her new boyfriend, Randall (Jason Gotay), and another bonding duet for Campbell and Danielle. The buildup to the cheer-off at the nationals takes too long, and it’s disappointing that, because most of the dancers double as members of both squads, we see only one competing routine.Like most entertainments about the trials and triumphs of the teenage years, “Bring It On” has as much sap as it does pep in its DNA. It’s distinguished primarily by the electrifying dance routines and the elaborate cheer-squad performances. The formulaic romances and the ultimate triumph of the good girls over the mean girls may inspire the occasional yawn, but this is also the only musical I’ve seen that had me regularly gasping at the human pyrotechnics on display. Instead of humming the songs — or the scenery, as the old joke goes — you leave humming the gymnastics.BRING IT ONThe MusicalLibretto by Jeff Whitty; music by Tom Kitt and Lin-Manuel Miranda; lyrics by Amanda Green and Mr. Miranda; inspired by the motion picture “Bring It On,” written by Jessica Bendinger; directed and choreographed by Andy Blankenbuehler; music supervision and dance arrangements by Alex Lacamoire; sets by David Korins; costumes by Andrea Lauer; lighting by Jason Lyons; sound by Brian Ronan; video by Jeff Sugg; hair and wig design by Charles G. LaPointe; technical supervisor, Jake Bell; production supervisor, Lisa Dawn Cave; arrangements and orchestrations by Mr. Lacamoire and Mr. Kitt; music coordinator, Michael Keller; music director, Dave Pepin; executive producers, Kristin Caskey and Mike Isaacson. Presented by the Center Theater Group, Michael Ritchie, artistic director; and Universal Pictures Stage Productions/Glenn Ross and Beacon Communications/Armyan Bernstein and Charlie Lyons. At the Center Theater Group/Ahmanson Theater, 601 West Temple Street, Los Angeles; (213) 972-4400, CenterTheatreGroup.org. Through Dec. 10. Running time: 2 hours 10 minutes.WITH: Taylor Louderman (Campbell), Adrienne Warren (Danielle), Jason Gotay (Randall), Elle McLemore (Eva), Ryann Redmond (Bridget), Ariana DeBose (Nautica), Gregory Haney (La Cienega), Neil Haskell (Steven), Janet Krupin (Kylar), Kate Rockwell (Skylar) and Nicolas Womack (Twig).