The result was a surprisingly large and welcoming umbrella under which a variety of ideas thrived. This isn’t monoculture, à la Ms. Swift, but a polyglot of alternative and outsider styles that, taken together, constitute something like a new mainstream.Given that, the festival’s most surprising feature was the resilience of that old, now greatly diminished, standby, indie rock, which thrived and exploded in the late 1980s and early ’90s, back when affiliations were tribal and fierce.At the festival, many of these artists were happily traversing the styles of that era, because they lived through it or because they had studied it closely. (Sometimes what marks a band as progressive is reviving an old, outmoded dogma rather than sticking to one that’s dominant at the moment.)Sleater-Kinney, Saturday night’s forceful and muscular headliner and one of the most searing bands of the ’90s, was a testament to the durability and vision of the riot grrrl movement. So was Kathleen Hanna (of Bikini Kill), who performed here with the Julie Ruin, her newest project, which takes on the tense and anxious subject matter of old in more cheerful guise. While she performed, Katie Crutchfield of Waxahatchee — a student of that time — was playing on a bigger stage across the park, but told the fans in her crowd that they should consider seeing Ms. Hanna’s band, because without Ms. Hanna’s music, there would be no music by Ms. Crutchfield.Alicia Bognanno of Bully is another able student of the early ’90s, more postgrunge than riot grrrl: Her band’s set here was terse, shouty and great. From Ms. Crutchfield and Ms. Bognanno to the ruminative Courtney Barnett to the gleaming Lauren Mayberry of the synth-pop revivalists Chvrches, almost all the most compelling singers here were women.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.By contrast, the men were generally shambolic or dour or tentative. (An exception was Mike Hadreas, a.k.a. Perfume Genius, who rivetingly translated his art song into sensual growls accompanied by slinky body movements.)This festival tends to spotlight certain artists just beginning to move beyond their formative days and into broader acclaim; often they bulk up for the bigger stage. In many cases, the spackling serves them well — Tobias Jesso Jr., so goofy when alone, was far less grating with a whimsical band behind him; Mac DeMarco, who often seems as if he’s performing by accident, was anchored by a band that played convincing dreamy synth-pop; and Protomartyr, wearing all black under an oppressive afternoon sun, played bruised, slashing postpunk, smeared with deadpan declarations from the frontman Joe Casey.Wilco, the long-running Chicago experimental rock band, headlined on Friday night, playing, front to back, a surprise album it released free online just a day before — a reminder that young Turks aren’t the only ones using technology to their advantage.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAs if reinforcing the idea that old rules are meaningless, the festival booked two members of the performance art/meta-pop PC Music collective. The producer A. G. Cook played a set of warped, overcaffeinated club music that took in ringtone sounds, the sonic ethic of J-pop and K-pop, trance, jungle and more; it was the music of technological supersaturation. (The other was Sophie, whose song “Lemonade” was recently used in a McDonald’s commercial, because why not? Sophie was one of two acts whose Saturday sets were canceled because of travel and weather issues. The festival was briefly evacuated on Saturday because of storms.)Generally, Pitchfork favors dance music outsiders, but its relationship to hip-hop is less consistent. Here, Freddie Gibbs delivered old-fashioned tough talk in surprisingly nimble fashion, ASAP Ferg was kinetic and rowdy, and Run the Jewels, the duo of El-P and Killer Mike, spit aggrieved, acid raps.Chicago is also a city that has produced vibrant and troubling rap music in recent years, namely the drill movement spearheaded by Chief Keef, which has come hand in hand with an awful spate of street violence. One of the last times Chief Keef performed in Chicago was at Lollapalooza, in 2012, a quick appearance during AraabMuzik’s set. He’s since moved away, but his shadow here remains long. On Friday night, separate from this festival, a benefit concert featuring a hologram of Chief Keef — he can’t appear here because of legal problems — was scheduled to take place, but was canceled partly because of community pushback.Chicago hip-hop was briefly showcased here during Future Brown’s set with an appearance by Sicko Mobb, purveyors of bop music, the optimistic counterpoint to drill. But the city’s loudest statement came during the set of the hometown hero Chance the Rapper, who raps nimbly and exuberantly about tough subject matter. His performance was a robust, joyful tapestry of black music — hip-hop, footwork, jazz, gospel, soul, spoken word and some motivational speaking for good measure. He’s an easeful, exciting performer with a flash of vaudeville theatricality.As a guest, he brought out Kirk Franklin, the gospel maximalist, and asked him, “Can we turn all the way up for God right now?” This was, by any measure, a rousing pairing — a city in need of a salve being ministered to by one of its favored sons. But at a festival that prides itself on its open ears, this was also one of the few available ways to shock: kicking down the wall between the secular and the sacred.