This urge is typically coupled with cravings for junk food. "While watching television, you are not seized with a desire for some healthy nourishing food," Mr. McKibben said. "I don't suddenly want carrot sticks. I want Cheetos."Other professional viewers have noticed a similar itch. Jeff Jarvis, the critic for TV Guide, who watches television 60 hours a week, said his tastes run toward Coca-Cola, Snackwell's Bite Size Chocolate Chip Cookies and Cinnamon Graham Snacks.But the debates, he said, require more than ordinary television fare. "To me this feels like a macaroni-and-cheese event," he said. "I envision a real Velveeta kind of night."In addition to the nostalgic value of such Americana as macaroni and cheese, or meatloaf and mashed potatoes, these kinds of dishes offer a high-fat content that experts say is critical for debate-watching."I know that in the long haul I am going to be bored to tears and I am only watching the debates out of civic duty," said Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor of New York City. "Therefore, I must comfort myself with the high-fat dishes I normally abjure." To get into the proper mood, Mr. Koch said he planned to eat a hot fudge sundae before dinner.Jeff Greenfield, political and media analyst for ABC News, agreed that a debate-night menu should include high-fat, gruel-like dishes. Not, he said, for comfort, but for digestibility. "The audience for debates skews old demographically," he said. "So you're looking at people who buy denture creams and laxatives, an audience of incontinent denture wearers that eats accordingly."Ms. Disney said the accord between high-fat dishes and political debate is born of a different physiological mandate. "We need to get mad during these debates," she said. "Little vegetables and pasta aren't going to do that. We need meat. Meat fat makes you mad. I call it hostility food."Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFoul! cries Rusty Staub, the former Met who owns Rusty's on Fifth in Manhattan. "Whenever you get a tense situation on television in our bar, it brings on the hard stuff," he said. "If people are feeling hostile and tense, they don't eat."The restaurant's manager, Kevin Taylor, said the situation is irreversible. "During the Democratic convention, we tried to balance it with humor, offering dishes like 'Wild Bill Clinton Chili' and 'Roasted Quayle,' " he said. "But nobody ordered them when serious stuff was going on. They just ordered hard liquor."Indeed, some people feel that food has no place at the debates. "The first thing I think of is indigestion," said Andy Rooney, the commentator on CBS for "60 Minutes," which will be pre-empted on Sunday by the first debate. Mr. Rooney echoed Mr. Staub's findings. "I'd take a strong drink with the debates," he said.Therefore, to buttress the cheese curls and taco chip hors d'oeuvres, a group of recipes have been culled. All are variations on classic American themes, but each offers enough deviation to provide that subtle je ne sais quoi for debate-night menus.Mr. Jarvis has supplied a macaroni-and-cheese recipe that, he said, is "as American as American cheese, as mushy as politician's rhetoric." Bill Blass, the designer, has suggested a recipe for an upscale meatloaf that he cooks for charity events. Michael Romano, chef of the Union Square Cafe in Manhattan, suggests variations on the basic mashed-potato theme to provide a grace note to the meatloaf.And Mr. Koch has endorsed a variation on the fudge sauce that he used to make during his days in Congress. It can be used over ice cream, as a fondue for cookies, or as a sauce for brownies. The best recipes, like the best candidates, are flexible, accommodating and easily adaptable to prime-time institutions. Meatloaf (Adapted from Bill Blass) Total time: 1 1/2 hours 3 tablepoons butter 1 cup chopped celery (2 to 3 ribs) 1 medium onion, peeled and chopped 2 pounds ground sirloin 1/2 pound ground veal 1/2 pound ground pork 1/2 cup chopped parsley 1/3 cup sour cream 1/2 cup soft bread crumbs Pinch dried thyme Pinch dried marjoram Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 egg 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce Oil for pan 1 12-ounce bottle or 1 1/2 cups chili sauce 3 strips bacon.1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Melt butter in a heavy skillet. Add celery and onion. Saute over medium heat until soft. Remove from heat and let cool for 5 minutes.2. Add the meats, parsley, sour cream, bread crumbs, thyme, marjoram, salt and pepper to the vegetable mixture. Whisk the egg and Worcestershire sauce together and add to the mixture. Use a wooden spoon or your hands to combine the ingredients. Form into a loaf.Advertisement Continue reading the main story3. Lightly oil a loaf pan. Place meatloaf in the pan. Pour chili sauce over top. Top with bacon strips. Place on a baking sheet and bake for 1 hour.Yield: 6 servings.Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 690 calories, 45 grams fat, 220 milligrams cholesterol, 1,105 milligrams sodium (before salting), 50 grams protein, 20 grams carbohydrate. Macaroni and Cheese (Adapted from Jeff Jarvis) Total time: 40 minutes 2 tablespoons light margarine 2 tablespoons flour 2 cups 1 percent lowfat milk 12 ounces elbow macaroni 12 ounces Velveeta Light processed cheese product, sliced thin 1 teaspoon dry mustard Cracked black pepper to taste Oil for casserole.1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Melt margarine in a medium saucepan. Stir in flour. Slowly whisk in milk. Simmer over medium heat until thickened slightly, 10 to 15 minutes, whisking frequently. Meanwhile, cook macaroni in boiling, salted water until tender. Drain.2. Reserve six cheese slices. Slowly add remaining cheese to the milk mixture a slice at a time, whisking constantly. Stir in mustard and pepper.3. Lightly grease a 1 1/2-quart casserole. Toss the macaroni with the cheese mixture and place in the dish. Top with the reserved cheese slices. Bake for 30 minutes.Yield: 6 servings.Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 435 calories, 13 grams fat, 35 milligrams cholesterol, 980 milligrams sodium, 20 grams protein, 55 grams carbohydrate. Hot Fudge Sauce Total time: 10 minutes 2 cups semisweet chocolate chips 1 tablespoon strong black coffee 2 tablespoons sweet butter 2 tablespoons heavy cream 2 tablespoons Armagnac or Cognac.1. In a double boiler over low heat, melt the chocolate chips with the coffee. Whisk in the butter and stir until melted. Whisk in the cream and beat until combined and glossy. Remove from heat. Beat in the Armagnac and serve over very rich ice cream immediately.Yield: 4 servings. Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 490 calories, 25 grams fat, 25 milligrams cholesterol, 60 milligrams sodium, 4 grams protein, 60 grams carbohydrate. Basic Mashed Potatoes (Adapted from Union Square Cafe) Total time: 20 minutes 4 medium-size potatoes, peeled and cut into 1-inch cubes 1/2 cup milk 1/4 cup heavy cream 4tablespoons unsalted butter Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Place potatoes in a saucepan. Cover with water. Simmer over medium heat until tender. Drain.2. Pass potatoes through a ricer. Warm the milk and stir it and cream, butter, salt and pepper into the potatoes.Yield: 4 cups.Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 295 calories, 20 grams fat, 60 milligrams cholesterol, 30 milligrams sodium (before salting), 4 grams protein, 30 grams carbohydrate. Eggplant Mashed Potatoes (Adapted from Union Square Cafe) Total time: 60 minutes 2 large eggplants, halved lengthwise Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste 1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 tablespoon tahini Pinch cayenne 1 ounce grated baby ginger 1/3 cup wheat-free soy sauce 4 cups Basic Mashed Potatoes (see recipe).1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees.2. Season eggplant with salt and pepper. Roast in the oven until tender, about 20 minutes. Scoop out the flesh and chop eggplant with a knife; do not puree.3. Heat olive and sesame oils in a medium-size pot. Add eggplant and cook until heated through. Stir in tahini, cayenne, ginger, soy sauce, salt and pepper. Stir in mashed potatoes. Cook until heated through, about 5 minutes.Yield: 4 servings.Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 445 calories, 30 grams fat, 60 milligrams cholesterol, 1,390 milligrams sodium (before salting), 7 grams protein, 45 grams carbohydrate. Tomato Mashed Potatoes (Adapted from Union Square Cafe) Total time: 3 hours 40 minutes, plus 2 to 3 days for marinating 4 plum tomatoes, halved lengthwise 1 teaspoon kosher salt 1/2 cup olive oil 2 garlic cloves, peeled 1 teaspoon dried rosemary 1 teaspoon dried thyme 4 cups Basic Mashed Potatoes (see recipe).1. Sprinkle cut side of tomatoes with salt. Let drain on paper toweling for 2 hours. Preheat oven to 100 degrees. Place tomatoes on a baking sheet. Bake for 3 hours.2. Combine olive oil, garlic, rosemary and thyme in a bowl. Add tomatoes. Marinate for 2 to 3 days. When ready to serve, remove tomatoes from marinade and drain. Place in a food processor and puree until smooth.3. Heat mashed potatoes in a medium saucepan. Stir in tomato puree. Cook until heated through.Yield: 4 servings.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyApproximate nutritional analysis per serving: 395 calories, 30 grams fat, 60 milligrams cholesterol, 215 milligrams sodium, 5 grams protein, 35 grams carbohydrate. Basil Mashed Potatoes (Adapted from Union Square Cafe) Total time: 40 minutes 1/3 cup olive oil 4 garlic cloves, peeled 1/4 cup pine nuts 1/2 teaspoon salt Freshly ground black pepper to taste 2 cups basil leaves, washed and dried 4 cups Basic Mashed Potatoes (see recipe) 2 tablespoons grated Parmesan cheese (optional).1. Place olive oil, garlic, pine nuts, salt and pepper in a blender. Puree. Add basil leaves. Puree until smooth.2. Heat mashed potatoes in a medium-size saucepan. Stir in basil mixture and cheese, if desired. Cook until heated through.Yield: 4 servings.Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 530 calories, 40 grams fat, 60 milligrams cholesterol, 370 milligrams sodium, 8 grams protein, 35 grams carbohydrate.