I also make custards for guests, and here I will share with you a discovery. Many people who are accomplished cooks, people who can skin eels and make croquembouche, have never made a caramel custard, because they are afraid to caramelize a pan. I who have never skinned an eel (I do not speak of croquembouche) one day steeled myself and, with Julia Child's "French Chef Cookbook" in hand, went ahead and tried, and found out that caramelizing is a cinch. You boil up some sugar and water until it turns brown, dump it into the baking dish, roll the dish around until the bottom and sides are coated, and then turn it upside down to cool while you throw together the custard mix.If, when you turn the baking dish back over, you find that it has developed pointy little drips from the top or sliding globs on the side, pay no mind. Just pour the custard mix in -- it will melt down the offending items -- and stick the dish in the oven.On the road to custard heaven, the final stop is petit pot au chocolat. Basically, this is chocolate pudding, adult style, and I think that if you polled all the dinner guests in the Western world on a given Saturday night, you would find that this is the thing they most want for dessert. They don't need it. They already ate too much. So just serve it in small portions -- the recipe below is for half-cup dishes -- and that way, when dinner is over, your friends will only grip their sides and moan, but not fall off the chairs.A word on cooking time. Everything depends on your oven. All the cooking times given below are far shorter than what my oven (but not, apparently, a well-regulated oven) requires. Just keep testing. When the knife in the middle comes out clean, the custard is done. Some people say to take it out sooner: the sides will then be done, and the middle will finish cooking while the custard is cooling. But that, to me, is trusting too much to life. I say don't remove it till the middle is set. Then take it out and put it directly into a bowl of ice water. The sides will cool down and not overcook, but you will know that the center is really done. FLAN DE CAFE (COFFEE CARAMEL CUSTARD) (Adapted from "The Art of Mexican Cooking," by Diana Kennedy; Bantam Books) 3/4 cup sugar, plus 1/2 cup 1 quart milk Pinch salt 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract 2 tablespoons instant coffee powder (not decaffeinated) 4 eggs 2 egg yolks.1. In a small, heavy frying pan, heat the 3/4 cup sugar over medium-low heat until it begins to dissolve. Shake the pan slightly, but do not stir, until all the sugar has melted, about 10 minutes. Increase the heat and stir the sugar as it begins to bubble and take on color.2. When the sugar is a dark, caramel color, pour into a 6-cup charlotte mold or souffle dish and quickly turn in all directions, tipping the mold or dish from side to side until the surface -- the bottom -- and about 2 inches up the sides is lightly coated with the caramel. If the caramel thickens before it reaches this point, then heat the mold over a low flame until the caramel runs more smoothly.3. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.4. Place the milk, salt and remaining 1/2 cup sugar into a heavy saucepan. Bring to a simmer and stir to dissolve sugar. Continue boiling -- being careful the mixture doesn't boil over -- until the milk has reduced by about half a cup, about 20 minutes. Stir in the vanilla extract and coffee powder, and set aside to cool.Advertisement Continue reading the main story5. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs and yolks together; when the milk is tepid, stir the eggs into the milk. Pour through a strainer into the prepared mold or dish; set in a hot-water bath and bake in the lower third of the oven for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, or until custard is set and a knife comes out clean; cooking times vary with the depth of the mold. Set aside to cool completely before refrigerating; the flan should be served chilled. To unmold, carefully insert a blunt, thin metal spatula around the rim of the custard and gently tip the mold from side to side to see if it is loose. If the caramel on the bottom of the pan has hardened, place in a pan of hot water to loosen and test again. Unmold into a serving dish.Yield: Six to eight servings. CARAMEL CUSTARD (Adapted from "The French Chef Cookbook," by Julia Child, Alfred A. Knopf) 1/2 cup sugar, plus 3/4 cup 3 3/4 cups milk 1 vanilla bean, or 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract 5 large eggs 4 egg yolks.1. Bring 1/2 cup sugar and 2 1/2 tablespoons water to boil in a small, heavy saucepan, slowly swirling the pan by its handle until sugar has dissolved completely and liquid is perfectly clear. Continue to boil, swirling the pan frequently, until sugar turns a caramel brown, about 3 to 5 minutes. Immediately pour the hot caramel into a 6-cup charlotte mold or souffle dish and turn in all directions to film bottom and sides. Set aside until ready for use. If desired, individual ramekins may be used. When the sugar is caramelized, pour into 6 individual ramekins and swirl to coat as above.2. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.3. Heat the milk to simmering in a small, heavy saucepan. Slit the vanilla bean (if using) with a knife and scrape the seeds into the milk. Add the shell to the milk and allow to steep for 10 minutes. Strain and discard the bean.4. Meanwhile, in a 2 1/2-quart mixing bowl, beat the eggs and the yolks with a wire whisk or electric mixer; gradually beat in the remaining sugar. When mixture is light and foamy, beat in milk in a very thin stream (beat in vanilla extract if using). Strain through a fine sieve into the prepared mold or souffle dish.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.5. Set in a hot-water bath and bake in lower third of the oven for 40 minutes, or until a knife comes out clean when stuck in the center of the custard. Check the water from time to time to make sure it never comes to a boil; adjust heat if necessary. This will insure a smooth custard.6. To serve warm, let settle for 10 minutes in a pan of cold water. Turn a warm serving dish upside down over custard, then reverse to unmold. To serve cold, let cool to room temperature; chill several hours, then unmold.Yield: Six to eight servings. PETIT POT AU CHOCOLAT (Adapted from Le Cirque, Manhattan) 1 quart milk 1 scant cup cocoa powder 7 ounces bittersweet chocolate (like Valrhona brand) 1 scant cup sugar 3 egg yolks 1 egg white.1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees.2. In a heavy saucepan, heat the milk to simmering and stir in cocoa, chocolate and1/2 of the sugar. Simmer, stirring, until the chocolate is completely melted.Advertisement Continue reading the main story3. In a separate bowl, whisk together egg yolks, egg white and remaining sugar. Pour milk mixture in a thin stream into the egg mixture; stir to combine. Pour into 12 small (2-by-2-inch) ramekins and place in a hot-water bath. Cover loosely with a sheet of aluminum foil or a baking sheet. Bake for 30 to 45 minutes, or until custard is thickened but not too firm; it will thicken some as it cools. Cool slightly before serving (or chill completely in the refrigerator, about 2 hours).Yield: Twelve servings. RASPBERRY CUSTARD (Adapted from March restaurant, Manhattan) 1 quart milk 3/4 cup sugar 8 large egg yolks 2 tablespoons vanilla extract Pinch salt 1 pint raspberries (reserve 30 raspberries for garnish) 2 tablespoons mint leaves, cut in a chiffonade.1. In a small, heavy saucepan, scald milk with sugar to dissolve. Cool to room temperature. Whisk in yolks with vanilla extract and salt. Pass through a fine strainer and pour into 5 shallow gratin dishes of about 6 ounces each. Set 6 berries in each dish.2. Place in a hot-water bath and bake at 350 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes or until set.3. Meanwhile, place 1/2 pint raspberries in a blender or food processor and puree. Pass through a fine strainer and reserve.4. When custard is done, divide the puree among the custards, drizzling ribbons of puree on top of each; garnish with remaining berries and mint.Yield: Six servings. VANILLA CUSTARD WITH PRUNES POACHED IN LEMON VERBENA AND MAPLE CARAMEL (Adapted from Bouley restaurant, Manhattan) 2 tablespoons dried lemon verbena leaves (or substitute 2 chamomile or verbena tea bags) 18 pitted prunes. 5 ounces maple syrup 1 ounce heavy cream 1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon) butter 2 cups milk 1 vanilla bean or 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 eggs 1/2 cup sugar.1. Prepare an infusion with the lemon verbena or tea bags and 2 cups boiling water. Add the prunes and let soak overnight. Drain the prunes thoroughly and pat dry. Set aside.2. In a small, heavy saucepan, heat the maple syrup to 275 degree, watching carefully to make sure the sugar does not boil over. Remove from heat and whisk in cream and butter. Pour into 6 3-inch ramekins.Advertisement Continue reading the main story3. Preheat the oven to 275 degrees.4. If using vanilla bean, bring milk and bean to a simmer in a heavy saucepan; remove from heat and let steep 10 minutes. Strain, and discard the vanilla bean. If using vanilla extract, heat the milk and stir in the vanilla.5. Meanwhile, in a separate bowl, beat together the eggs and sugar and pour in the infused milk. Mix gently. Place 3 prunes in each ramekin and divide the custard among them. Place in a hot-water bath and bake for 45 minutes, or until custard is set. Chill 2 hours. Unmold onto individual serving plates and serve.Yield: Six servings.