Notable among the cardinals and political leaders seated near the outdoor altar was Benedict XVI, the former pope who has remained largely out of the public eye since his historic resignation last year. His decision to step down led to the papal election of Francis.Many people also came from John Paul’s native Poland, where he is a hero for his fight against Communism.“It’s a very special day for every Pole, in particular for young people for whom John Paul II meant a new history, for our country and for Europe, as well,” said Lucasz Novak, 38, who came from northeastern Poland on a seven-day tour of holy sites in Italy.“For Poland, it’s a holy moment,” he said from St. Peter’s Square, as he used his smartphone to listen to a live broadcast of the celebration on Vatican Radio’s Polish channel. “For Catholics all over the world, it’s a holy moment. We could not not be here.”For Francis, who has emerged as a major global figure after only a year as pope, the canonization ceremony offered a stage to underscore his broad agenda of trying to bring together different Catholic factions as he prepares for two major meetings in which prelates are expected to address some of the most contentious social issues facing the church.VideoIn the days before the ceremony, however, Vatican officials had sought to dispel the political subtext of the event — that the two former popes are icons to different constituencies within the church, and that by canonizing them together, Francis was making a political statement as well as a religious one.John XXIII is a hero to many liberal Catholics for his Second Vatican Council of the early 1960s, which sought to open the church to the modern era. John Paul II is a hero to many conservative Catholics — not only for his anti-Communist heroism and personal charisma, but also because of his resistance to liberalizing elements of the church.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBy pairing their canonizations, Francis sought to de-emphasize their differences, many analysts said, in the service of trying to reconcile divisions within the church and finding consensus as he prepared for the major meetings, known as synods, centered on the theme of family.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.In his homily, Francis described John XXIII as the pope of “exquisite openness,” while he called John Paul II “the pope of the family.”He said that both themes were especially relevant as the church had embarked on a “two-year journey toward the synod.”The crowds began arriving in the early morning darkness, hours before the ceremony, with thousands upon thousands of footsteps padding against the Roman cobblestones while much of the city still slept.Some pilgrims had spent the night sleeping on sidewalks beside the Tiber River, others on the floors of local convents. With sunrise, the crowds poured into the unreserved portions of St. Peter’s Square, as well as along Via della Conciliazione, the broad boulevard leading from the Tiber to the Vatican. The spectacle was beamed across the world: More than 5,000 priests and over 1,000 bishops, leaders and other dignitaries from more than 90 countries joined the throng of Catholics.Mary Ellen Watson, 54, who came from Kansas, said she was overwhelmed at the beginning of the service, when Francis gently embraced Benedict, who is now known as pope emeritus.“This is a moment in the history of the church that has never happened and won’t probably happen again — with four popes!” she said.Not far away, Juana Pineda, 73, who had traveled from Chile, stood in line for more than 15 hours so that she could get a position just outside the square, under the famous colonnade built centuries ago by Bernini.“I am not tired,” she said. “I am simply happy. To sit here, meet all these people from all over the world, feel close to them, to feel like the church is one because we all belong here — this is why I came, to be part of this moment.”