It’s not that American officials never intervene. But they tend to do it indirectly. They talk up the market (Treasury Secretary Paul O’Neill did that after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks), or try to ban short-selling (as the Securities and Exchange Commission did for certain bank stocks during the 2008 crisis). And in January 2008, an erratic global stock market sell-off on Martin Luther King’s Birthday prompted the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates, though that most likely just sped up a rate cut that would have happened soon enough, as the American economy had fallen into recession.But those episodes are rare, and with hindsight are frequently viewed as mistakes. No arm of the American government tried to prop up the stock market through outright purchases of stock during either the dot-com bubble crash or the 2008 financial crisis. (Perhaps capital injections into troubled banks in 2008 are an exception, though those interventions were targeted at propping up the banking system, not the stock market as a whole.)In thousands of pages of transcripts from closed-door Federal Reserve policy meetings over the last couple of decades, the stock market is mentioned plenty; it is invariably mentioned in the context of understanding what it means for the real economy — the spending of consumers, the ability of companies to raise capital and so on.There’s no doubt that the Fed’s monetary easing has driven up the stock market in the last five years, and that is one of the ways its policies have helped the overall economy. But that’s not the same as propping up the stock market as a goal in and of itself. It also helps explain why the Fed didn’t react to sharp stock market sell-offs in June 2013 or October 2014; there was minimal evidence they were affecting the actual ability of Americans to get a job and earn a living.The stock market, when it works well, is a valuable tool for enabling ordinary citizens to invest in companies and companies to obtain capital on favorable terms. When it goes poorly, it becomes an unusually large casino. That happened with dot-com stocks in the United States in the late 1990s, and that has happened by many accounts with Chinese stocks in the last year.When a government intervenes to try to prevent markets from adjusting to sensible levels, it can mean pouring money down a sinkhole and merely delaying an inevitable correction. Having used so many tools to try to prop up stocks, China now faces the knotty problem of its own credibility being on the line and has more to lose from a sell-off than if it had stood aside to begin with and focused on limiting the damage to overall economic growth.That fact is all the more reason governments, on both sides of the Pacific, could think of their “plunge protection team” as something different. “Economy protection team” has a nicer ring to it.