Sam Roberts is an obituaries reporter. He was previously The Times’s urban affairs correspondent and is the host of “The New York Times Close Up,” an hour-long weekly news and interview program on CUNY-TV, produced in association with The New York Times and which he inaugurated in 1992. He also has hosted weekly podcasts for The Times called “The Caucus” and “Only in New York.”His latest book, “Grand Central: How a Train Station Transformed America,” was published in January 2013.Prior to joining The Times, he worked for 15 years at the Daily News, first as a reporter, then as city editor from 1977 to 1981 and as political editor from 1981 to 1983. In his years as a journalist, Mr. Roberts has won awards from the Society of the Silurians and the Newspaper Guild of New York and has received the Peter Kihss Award from the Fund for the City of New York.His magazine articles have appeared in The New York Times Magazine, the New Republic and New York. He is the co-author of a biography of Nelson Rockefeller, published by Basic Books in 1977, the author of “Who We Are — a Portrait of America,” published in 1994 by Times Books and “Who We Are Now,” published in 2004, and “The Brother, The Untold Story of the Rosenberg Atom Spy Case,” which was published in 2001 and was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award. “A Kind of Genius,”about making government work, was published by PublicAffairs in May 2009.An anthology of his podcasts, entitled “Only in New York,” was published by St. Martin’s Press in November 2009.He is the editor of “America’s Mayor: John V. Lindsay and the Re-invention of New York” published by Columbia University Press in 2010. He was also the producer of a television documentary entitled “How the Other Half Lives, Revisited” on Jacob Riis’s New York in the 1890’s compared to New York in the 1990’s (funded by the Ford Foundation; it aired on PBS and premiered at the New-York Historical Society).Born in 1947 in Brooklyn, Mr. Roberts received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1968. While at Cornell he was managing editor of the Cornell Daily Sun and worked as a stringer for The Times and for the Associated Press and Time, Inc.He lives in New York with his wife and two sons.