CANNES, France — As he stood here after the premiere of his new movie, “The Immigrant,” James Gray smiled widely. It had been five years since he had been to the Cannes Film Festival with “Two Lovers,” which was also the last time he had directed a movie. Flanked by Marion Cotillard and Jeremy Renner, two of the stars from his latest, Mr. Gray, 44, looked content for a man who earlier that day had compared facing the journalist hordes to having a colonoscopy without anesthesia. But the hordes had been dispatched and now he could bask in an audience’s love. So he smiled, hugged Ms. Cotillard and then, abruptly, buried his face in his blue bespoke tuxedo jacket.“The Immigrant,” a moody melodrama set in New York in 1921, turns on a triangle involving a new Polish arrival (Ms. Cotillard), a magician (Mr. Renner) and a pimp (Joaquin Phoenix, who’s off shooting another film). The movie represents Mr. Gray’s fourth time in competition here, a notable distinction given that he has directed just five features. He was first invited to Cannes in 2000 for his second, “The Yards” (his first is the 1994 drama “Little Odessa”), and returned to face clashing waves of cheers and jeers in 2007 for “We Own the Night” and again in 2008 for “Two Lovers.” The reception in the United States for those last two films was divided, but Le Monde capped its rave for “We Own the Night” by declaring Mr. Gray “one of the great American directors of our time.”For Mr. Gray, Cannes offers the kind of institutional legitimation he has not often received in the United States. He has never been nominated for an Academy Award, and while he’s been up for Spirit Awards, the Indiewood version of the Oscars, he hasn’t won any of those, either. At Cannes he is not simply another director, he is one of this festival’s chosen auteurs as well as a celebrity in his own right. It’s a role that the tall, talky Mr. Gray wears comfortably, although his tendency to sprinkle conversations with funny, self-mocking comments suggests he doesn’t want to be taken too seriously. You wouldn’t necessarily know it from his movies, but he’s a comedian: Kent Jones, a programmer for the Film Society of Lincoln Center, calls him one of the funniest people he knows.As he sat Friday morning outside his hotel in a car that would take him off for what would be a very a long day and night — perhaps longer because I was tagging after him to write about what it’s like for a director to have a movie at Cannes — a woman insistently knocked on a window, calling out his name and asking for his autograph.