But it is very doubtful that Republicans would survive a 13-point loss in the popular vote. We’ll go into this in more detail next year, but for now my view is that Republicans have a realistic chance to survive up to around an eight-point deficit in the popular vote. There isn’t a serious argument that they have a real chance to survive with a deficit of 13 points.One (Possible) Bit of Good News for the G.O.P. Isn’t Good EnoughThere’s one potential bit of good news for Republicans: Historically, parties have struggled to match landslide margins on the generic ballot with landslide margins in the popular vote.For instance, Democrats in 2006 had an 11.5-point lead in the final RealClearPolitics average on the generic ballot but won the popular vote by eight points. Similarly, Republicans in 2010 had a nine-point lead and won the popular vote by seven points.Typically, there would be no reason to pay attention to this kind of difference between the polls and the outcome of so few elections. But the generic ballot is unusual: It’s generic. It doesn’t directly measure attitudes about the actual ballot that voters will cast. And some generic polls ask which party voters would prefer to see in control of Congress, not whether they’ll vote for Democrats or Republicans.You can think of it as somewhere between a presidential horse race poll and presidential approval ratings. Both are highly correlated with presidential election results, but the latter is just a correlate of presidential vote choice, while the former is a direct measurement. It is well acknowledged that a 25 percent approval rating may signal only, say, a 12-point loss rather than a 50-point loss.The empirical evidence does hint at bias in the relationship between the generic ballot and the popular vote, but it’s not conclusive. On the other hand, there’s a decent theoretical case that it’s close enough to a direct measurement of congressional vote choice that it can be treated as such.Whether there’s such a bias makes a difference. If you assume that, over the long run, the generic ballot yields an unbiased estimate of the popular vote, the Democrats might be poised to do better than they did in 2006, for example, since Democrats won the popular vote by only eight points. If it is biased, an 11.5-point Democratic generic ballot lead might yield only an eight-point popular vote edge, like in 2006, and the House might still be something closer to a tossup.But today’s generic ballot polls give Democrats an even larger lead than the one they had in 2006 or that the Republicans had in 2010. The president’s approval rating is lower as well. That doesn’t guarantee that the Democrats will do better than they did in 2006 — or than the Republicans did in 2010. But it does mean that it’s the best estimate based on the available indicators of the national political environment. If it holds up, Democrats are favored to retake the House.