PhotoLong before I was old enough to enjoy fully the pleasures of glogg — the Swedish yuletide wine mulled with orange peel and spices — its aroma had made me an admirer. I can still summon that first whiff, when, as a child, I stepped inside a small inn where a caldron of the stuff was simmering. Though this admission will make Scandinavians cringe, the fragrance evoked a warmed-up bowl of Froot Loops, a 10-year-old girl’s idea of olfactory heaven.It was the cardamom. (A quick but gratifying Internet search shows that I’m hardly the only one who thinks that the cereal smells uncannily like the spice.) But cardamom also helps distinguish glogg from similar concoctions like Germany’s glühwein and English mulled wine, which typically contain none.I’m no Viking, but glogg (pronounce the “o” like the “eu” in pneumonia) remains my go-to winter warmer, and I make a huge pot whenever I give a holiday party. I like hot, spiced, spiked cider too, but it can be cloyingly sweet. Glogg allows for more control: it tastes deeply and darkly of wine and citrus and spice, and you may add, or entirely omit, sugar (or liquor). It brings a rosy flush to all who drink it — good cheer in a cup, accompanied, ideally, by the thinnest, crispiest, spiciest gingersnaps.Glogg is also not without controversy. I recently asked two Swedes, a Swedish-American, a Dane and a Norwegian-American for their recipes, and I got five vastly different formulas. The constants are red wine, orange peel, cloves and cardamom. Beyond these, there are innumerable variables: should vodka or brandy be added to make it stronger? Port? But glogg, like most holiday drinks (how many eggnog recipes have you seen?), is more about the idea than the ideal. As long as the essentials are in place, it will work, even if each individual rendition differs from the next.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMy friend Annika Sundvik — a Stockholm native and the proprietor and chef at White Slab Palace on the Lower East Side — is a bit of a glogg minimalist (no spirits, no added sugar) and a lifelong fan. But, she says, back home in Sweden, where glogg parties commence on the first night of Advent and do not cease until Christmas, it’s easy to succumb to “glogg fatigue.” This can be avoided: a single pot of glogg — made for one very cold night per holiday season, to be shared with many friends — should do the trick, even if it leaves you wanting more. Next winter will be here sooner than you think. It always is.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Swedish Immersion, Intermediate SlopeSwedish pop culture isn’t limited to Abba, H & M and the Millennium Trilogy. Here’s a crib sheet for those ready to take the next step.