Divide the pasta dough (see recipe) in half. You can roll this out as thinly as possible on a lightly floured flat surface. Ideally, you should use a pasta machine. Put the dough through the rollers set to the widest opening. If necessary, brush the rolled-out dough as you work with a little more flour to make it less sticky. Fold the rolled-out dough into a V. Put the top of the V back into the machine and roll it once more. Shape it into a V and put the sides of the dough through the rollers. Do this approximately four times before reducing the width of the roller opening. Repeat, folding the dough and putting it through the second opening as before, again four times. Continue reducing the width of the opening, folding and rolling as indicated. When you have put the dough through next to the last setting (the last setting will produce dough that is too thin), lay out the sheet of dough on kitchen toweling and roll out the second half of dough. Work quickly, for if the dough stands too long, it will become dry and brittle.Place one sheet of the dough on a flat, uncovered surface. Brush it all over lightly with beaten egg.Arrange each portion of the filling symmetrically over the surface of the pasta, making three rows, each row with about 10 or 11 equally spaced portions. Cover carefully with the second layer of dough. Gently and carefully press crosswise between the portions (when pressing crosswise, you will be pressing between three portions at a time), using a long slender object such as a chopstick. After pressing crosswise, turn the object used for pressing, and press gently and carefully lengthwise to seal the dough between each portion.Using a ravioli or other dough cutter, cut evenly between each portion, top to bottom, left to right. Sprinkle a baking or other sheet with corn meal, and arrange the ravioli separately and neatly spaced over it. The ravioli can be cooked immediately, but it is preferable to allow them to stand for a minimum of 15 minutes.When ready to cook, bring four to six quarts of water to the boil. Add salt to taste, if desired. Drop the ravioli into the boiling water. When the water returns to the boil, let the ravioli cook three minutes if you want them to be served as they should be or one to three minutes longer if you desire a more tender product.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Lobster stuffing for ravioli 21 1/2-pound live lobsters 1tablespoon corn, peanut orvegetable oilSalt to taste, if desiredFreshly ground pepper to taste 1/4cup finely chopped shallots Zcup finely chopped onions 1/2cup finely chopped carrots 1/2teaspoon finely minced garlic 2tablespoons Cognac 1 1/2cups dry white wine 1 1/2cups cored, cubed tomatoes 2tablespoons tomato paste 1/4teaspoon cayenne pepper 2tablespoons coarsely choppedfresh tarragon or half the amountdried 1bay leaf 1/2teaspoon dried thyme 1teaspoon finely chopped freshAdvertisement Continue reading the main storytarragon, optionalTomato sauce (see recipe).1. *Cut the spinal cord of each lobster by inserting a knife where the tail and body meet. Tear off the tail and claws of each lobster. Cut the chest portion in half lengthwise, and remove and discard the tough sac near the eyes. Cut the chest portion into small pieces. Cut the small feelers into small pieces. Scrape away and reserve the soft coral and liver from the cavity of each lobster. 2. *Heat the oil in a large, heavy casserole, and add all of the lobster pieces and any liquid that accumulates from the pieces. Cook, stirring, about one minute. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 3. *Add the shallots, onions, carrots and garlic. Add the reserved coral and liver. Cook, stirring, about three minutes, and add the Cognac and wine. Bring to a boil, and add the tomatoes and tomato paste, cayenne, coarsely chopped tarragon, bay leaf and thyme. Bring to the boil, cover closely and let simmer five minutes. 4. *Remove the lobster tails and claws, and set them aside. 5. *Pour the remaining mixture, including the shells and cooking liquid, into a food mill, and crush and press to extract as much liquid as possible from the solids. Pour this into a skillet and cook down to slightly less than one cup of sauce. 6. *When the tails and claws are cool enough to handle, crush and crack them and remove the meat. Cut the meat into small cubes. Put them in a bowl and add the sauce. Add the finely chopped tarragon, if used, and stir. The filling may be used at this point, but it is better to refrigerate it for an hour or longer before using. 7. *When ready to use the filling, scoop up about one and one-half teaspoons of the mixture, and roll it into a ball. There should be about 32 portions in all. Fill the rolled-out pasta dough. When the ravioli are cooked and drained, serve hot with tomato sauce. Serve four or more portions as an appetizer. Serve eight to 10 portions as a main course. Yield: Approximately six to eight appetizer portions; three or four main-course portions. Goat cheese filling for ravioli 1 1/2cups firmly packed chopped goatcheese 3/4 cup ricotta cheeseSalt to taste, if desiredFreshly ground pepper to taste 1/4cup heavy cream 3tablespoons finely chopped freshchives 1egg yolkTomato sauce (see recipe).1. *Put the goat cheese, ricotta, salt, pepper, cream, chives and egg yolk in a mixing bowl. Blend well. 2. *When ready to use the filling, scoop out about one and one-half teaspoons of the mixture, and roll into a ball. There should be about 32 balls in all. Fill the rolled-out pasta dough. When the ravioli are cooked, serve with tomato sauce. Serve four or more portions as an appetizer. Serve eight to 10 portions as a main course. Yield: Approximately six to eight appetizer portions, three or four main-course portions. Tomato sauce 3tablespoons butter 2tablespoons finely chopped shallots 3/4cup finely chopped onions 1/2teaspoon finely minced garlic 1/2teaspoon dried thyme 4 1/2cups cored, coarsely choppedtomatoes, about 2 pounds 1bay leafSalt to taste, if desiredFreshly ground pepper to taste 3/4cup heavy cream.1. *Heat one tablespoon of the butter in a casserole or saucepan, and add the shallots, onions, garlic and thyme. Cook, stirring, until the onions are wilted. 2. *Add the tomatoes, bay leaf, salt and pepper, and bring to the boil, stirring. Cover closely and let simmer 15 minutes. There should be about three and one-half cups. 3. *Pour the mixture into the container of a food processor or electric blender and blend thoroughly. 4. *Return the mixture to a saucepan and add the cream. Bring to the boil and let simmer about five minutes, stirring. Put the sauce through a sieve or, preferably, a food mill, stirring to extract as much liquid as possible from any solids. Reheat and swirl in the remaining two tablespoons of butter. Yield: About three cups.MICHAEL GEIGER