In December I e-mailed David Lebovitz, who worked in the pastry department at Chez Panisse before becoming a cookbook author and blogger, in Paris Paris to see if he’d be interested in trying Maida Heatter’s popover recipe. Heatter’s version ran in The Times in 1966 with an article by Craig Claiborne, just before she became renowned for her baking. (Claiborne wrote about her at least a dozen more times.) But because Heatter never made the leap to television celebrity chef-dom, I wondered if Lebovitz would have ever made her recipes.He replied instantly. “I love Maida Heatter,” he wrote. “In fact, in my desk drawer I have a handwritten letter she sent me that is one of my favorite, most cherished possessions. It traveled from San Francisco to Paris with me!” My work is done, I thought. Lebovitz went off to test the popovers and to think about his own interpretation. I went and ate a cookie.The popover is a culinary marvel, a loose batter that, with the aid of a hot oven, expands like a golden cumulus cloud, producing a crisp, hollow pastry with a soft, eggy interior. While the mixture is very similar to crepe batter, when you confine it to deep, narrow, muffinlike molds, the surface of the batter sets and the air is trapped, so that the pastry has nowhere to go but up and out, creating a gravity-defying bubble.PhotoPopovers — so named for the way the batter often rises up and over the sides of its molds — grew out of English Yorkshire pudding, except that the former is mostly made with butter and the latter with meat drippings. Early recipes for Yorkshire pudding call for pouring the loose batter into a shallow baking dish set under mutton or beef roasting on a spit.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThere is little current consensus on popover technique. Some recipes call for putting the buttered mold in the oven as it heats, adding the batter later. Others instruct you to pour the batter into the popover molds and place them in a cold oven. Heatter has you preheat the oven and place the filled molds into it, as you would a cake.