Broadly speaking, there are two major groups: an American-led contingent that includes the Sunni nations of the Persian Gulf, which have been collectively unable to muster much of a response since the Syrian civil war began in 2011; and Russia, Iran and various Shiite proxies.But that breakdown ignores one big reality: With the Iran nuclear agreement behind them, both Mr. Kerry and his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, have a strong interest in building a relationship that addresses broader issues, notably the Syrian war, the refugee crisis and the future of the Middle East. They met Thursday night and ostensibly discussed the nuclear accord, but it seemed inevitable that Syria would come up.“If there is to be a deal,” Aaron David Miller, a former State Department official now at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, wrote on Thursday, the United States and Russia “must create a center of gravity to pull the other players together.”American officials say they think they have a shot at that, because Russia’s alternative is to be bogged down in the Syrian war. But the Saudis seem to think a far more active military role to counter Iran is imperative.Under their new king, the Saudis have cooperated much more actively with Turkey to confront the Iranians in Syria. They say this is reflected in the advances into formerly government-held territory this year by the Army of Conquest, a coalition of rebel groups that receives some American support as well. The Russians have directly targeted the coalition, known in Arabic as Jaish al-Fatah, which the Saudis and Turks consider their client.It is the Iranians, however, who remain the primary target in the Saudis’ view. Sectarian rhetoric about the menace of Iranian Shiism has risen in Saudi pulpits. In the Saudi news media, the country’s intervention in Yemen is described as a war of necessity, not of choice, because of the threat of Iranian expansionism. The news media portrays the kingdom’s foes in Yemen’s Houthi rebel faction as, effectively, an arm of Iranian influence reaching into the Arabian Peninsula and toward the Saudi border.“It’s a frightening period for the Saudis,” said Joost Hiltermann, program director for the Middle East and North Africa at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. “They need to be reassured — psychologically, politically — that, in fact, Saudi Arabia remains a staunch American ally and is protected from that encroachment by Iran.”