His proposal to curtail terms came on a day that swung between embracing the past and grasping for the future.PhotoIn the morning, Cuba looked back, with fighter jets, gleaming olive-colored tanks and hundreds of thousands of marchers chanting in fervor over the failed invasion by Cuban exiles at the Bay of Pigs 50 years ago, still a celebrated triumph here.In the afternoon, President Castro looked ahead, swearing allegiance to socialism while bowing to the cold realities of this country’s crippled economy. He called for the elimination of monthly ration books that most Cubans use to buy goods, and for continued expansion of private enterprise. He cajoled his compatriots to shake off inertia and embrace an “updating” of the Cuban model.“No country or person can spend more than they have,” Mr. Castro told 1,000 delegates gathered for the party congress, which is expected to yield broad changes in the Cuban system before it concludes on Tuesday. “Two plus two is four. Never five, much less six or seven, as we have sometimes pretended.”Speaking for more than two hours — and for more than an hour after he declared, “Everything about the revolution has been said” — Mr. Castro gave assurances that socialism would prevail and promised Cubans continued free access to health care and education. But he said government handouts like the ration books were an “unsupportable load on the economy” that discouraged people from working.He praised the expanded opportunities already extended to entrepreneurs; the government has granted 180,000 licenses for small businesses like coffee vendors, fast-food stands and house rentals, with tens of thousands more expected to be issued in the coming months. Yet he appeared to reject as “contrary to socialism” the loosening of rules on buying and selling homes, a change some analysts had speculated was coming.The Cuban economy is sinking, racked by the lingering effects of the global recession of 2008, a free fall in the sugar market and, the government argues, the United States’ economic embargo.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Castro’s proposals may be the most significant changes here since businesses were nationalized in 1968, though it is clear that he and his aides are struggling to set a course that will not be seen as a failure of socialism.PhotoMr. Castro already warned that the state could no longer afford to keep four-fifths of the work force on its payrolls, but this month indefinitely delayed the layoffs of 500,000 state workers announced last year.In many ways, the morning demonstration was typical of most government-organized mass marches here. In the early morning, buses from across the country disgorged workers waving Cuban flags, sporting T-shirts bearing the image of Che Guevara and other icons, carrying placards and banners, and dancing to pounding, patriotic salsa rhythms.They marched along the Malecón seaside drive, then to Revolution Plaza, where President Castro and other dignitaries beamed at the show of force “to fight whatever imperialist aggression,” as the announcer put it.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The failure of Cuban exiles, trained and assisted by the C.I.A., to topple Fidel Castro’s government still ranks here as an important triumph over the United States, all these years later.The crowd shouted: “Long live Fidel! Long live Raúl! Long live our Communist Party!” Still, there was some anxiety.“Really, we do not know what is coming next,” said Armando, a teacher making his way to the parade who, like many others still fearful of speaking their minds here, would give only his first name. “It is worrying, but look around you. Nothing changes here, and that is the problem. We are like a living museum here.”A few handmade placards seemed to nod to the future.“Efficiency,” said one, “and victory.”