The problem for China is that a big chunk of the money is going into troubled industries like construction and real estate. Further slowdowns in those areas could result in major blowups.Banks also increasingly use the funds to raise money, instead of more stable deposits. The extra investment cash allows banks to make loans at a much faster clip than their deposits alone would allow. But if investors suddenly demanded their money back, banks could be in a financial bind.The Chinese government so far has stepped in to stop big meltdowns of wealth management products, to avert ripple effects and forestall investor anger. But not all investors have been spared.Precipitous Growth Over the last five years investors have poured at least $2.8 trillion into Chinese wealth management products, an uninsured investment mostly sold by banks. $3.5 trillion 3.0 Investment in Chinese wealth management products 2.5 2.0 1.5 1.0 0.5 Outstanding balance sold by banks. 0 ’11 ’15Li Wenyuan, a doctor in Beijing, says she invested almost $140,000 last year in a wealth management product linked to a steel company. After the company ran into difficulty, she was repaid less than $2,000. She had planned to use the entire original amount to send her son to a high school in Canada, where the air is cleaner and he would have a chance to improve his English.“It’s quite a big loss for my family,” she said. “We are still able to provide for ourselves. Still, it’s a lot of money and I doubt I will ever get it back. I am worried.”Wealth management products are part of a huge but shadowy system of unregulated investments and underground banks that many Chinese people depend on for the loans that keep their businesses humming. Increasingly, the debate inside and outside China is focusing on what will happen if that system falls apart — and how quickly the government might be able to respond.“There is a risk building up in this regard, and on top of that, the tricky issue is that there are many triggers that could wake up this sleeping lion,” said David Daokui Li, a prominent Tsinghua University economist who is a member of the Chinese central bank’s monetary policy committee. “Most likely, this issue will emerge as a crisis. The question is whether it is a small crisis or a big crisis.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyChina’s wealth management products are neither stocks nor bonds nor mutual funds. A typical wealth management product offers a fixed rate of return over a set period. Many Chinese investors treat them like bank savings deposits because many are sold by state-controlled banks that give the funds the appearance of government backing.But unlike bank deposits, they are uninsured. They are also typically structured so that the banks are not responsible if the investments fail.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Among the biggest issuers of wealth management products are hundreds of banks and other financial institutions in poor, inland provinces. These banks are under intense pressure from provincial political bosses to keep lending and help sustain big employers like state-owned enterprises, at a time when the entire country’s economy is slowing.To raise money for large-scale lending, banks have ramped up issuance. They sold 187,000 separate wealth management products by the end of last year, up 56 percent from a year earlier, according to official statistics.Technology has made it easier for firms other than banks, like State Gold Treasure, to sell the products online and through smartphone apps. “In the past, you’d need to go to the bank to open an account or open an account at a certain fund company,” said He Zhirui, a finance company worker in Beijing who also invests in wealth management products. “Now, with the apps, you can simply upload your personal ID and purchase wealth management products right away online.”State Gold Treasure, known as Guojinbao in Chinese, has its wood-paneled offices on the 71st floor of the gleaming Shanghai World Financial Center, which has a large statue of a Chinese god of wealth in the lobby. On its website, the company says investors are protected by a “seven-layer guarantee mechanism” and promises that all investments will be repaid in full.But the fund does not say who is guaranteeing the funds. The company declined interview requests and to make officials available for comment during a visit to its offices.The proliferation of wealth management products has drawn concern from regulators. In May, China’s banking commission warned that the business was plagued with problems, including unauthorized products.Regulators are also considering new oversight rules. The goal, the commission said in response to questions, was to “facilitate a standards-based, healthy and sustainable development” and to “prevent risks.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe shift in money away from bank deposits leaves China’s financial system on less solid footing. China withstood the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998 and the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 in part because its financial system depended on highly stable household and corporate deposits parked mainly at four huge, government-controlled banks.But smaller banks combined are now almost as large as the four main banks combined. Wealth management products account for up to a third of money raised at many midsize and smaller banks.Mr. Li, the central bank adviser, and other officials and economists say the Chinese government has the resources to cover big losses if wealth management products fail. They also say China’s increasingly tough enforcement of limits on sending money abroad will ensure that enough cash remains in the country in the event of a big failure.“With the Chinese system, it’s easier to deal with a liquidity issue — the money can’t go out,” said Chang Chun, the executive dean of the Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance at Shanghai Jiao Tong University.But some specialists in Chinese finance say that serious problems could appear faster than expected. They could also lurk in unexpected corners unnoticed by Chinese regulators, much less international investors.“It’s going to happen,” said Christopher Balding, an associate professor of finance at the HSBC Business School at the Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, “when a firm goes bust that you’ve never heard of, or in a city you’ve never heard of.”