The paella rice is bolstered with chicken and shrimp and garnished with mussels. Instead of a whole chicken, consider using just wings, which are easy to eat. Discard the wing tips (or save them for making stock) and separate the first and second joint. There are six to eight wings to a pound, and each pound in the paella should serve about four people. Whole chickens, cut in small pieces, can be substituted. Figure a three-and-a-half-pound chicken to serve six.In calculating how much of the other ingredients to buy, assume that each guest will eat three to four shrimps, one or two mussels and one-and-a-half ounces of sausage.The following recipe should serve 20 to 24 people. It can be adjusted for more or fewer portions by figuring four to five servings to a cup of rice. The cost should be around $3 to $4 a serving, or no more than about $75 for the whole dish.Some hors d'oeuvres like bowls of dip and platters of cheese and pate can be set out at the beginning of the party. Rounds of toast topped or spread with various savory mixtures like minced smoked fish smoothed with yogurt or sour cream can be passed with drinks.On the dinner buffet table, in addition to the paella, all that is needed is a green salad and perhaps some grilled vegetables along with bread. Dessert should also be put out buffet style, with cakes or tarts cut in slim wedges along with cookies and fruit salad or compote, and, finally, a dish of sumptuous chocolates, all of which can be purchased instead of being made from scratch.A well-stocked bar that includes plenty of soft drinks and nonalcoholic beer is necessary for a party. Consider serving sangria or a German white wine like a riesling kabinett or spatlese, which will complement the paella while likely having a relatively low alcoholic content. Coffee, both decaffeinated and regular, and tea are the final essentials.Easy Party Paella Total time: 2 1/2 hours 5 pounds chicken wings (30 to 40 wings) 8 tablespoons olive oil Juice of 2 lemons 1 teaspoon ground cumin Salt and freshly ground black pepper 40 mussels, scrubbed and debearded 1 cup dry white wine 3 pounds chorizo sausage 2 large onions, chopped 2 large sweet red peppers, cored, seeded and chopped 1 large green pepper, cored, seeded and chopped 6 cloves garlic, minced 2 teaspoons oregano 5 cups long grain rice 1 28-ounce can whole plum tomatoes 6 cups well-flavored chicken stock 1/2 teaspoon powdered saffron 3 pounds cooked shelled shrimp 1/2 cup drained capers 3 tablespoons minced fresh parsley Lemon wedges for garnish.Advertisement Continue reading the main story1. Disjoint the chicken wings, discarding the wing tips or reserving them for making stock. Place the remaining wing pieces in a large bowl. Mix three tablespoons of the olive oil with the lemon juice and cumin. Season this mixture to taste with salt and pepper. Pour over the chicken wings, cover and allow to marinate one to four hours.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.2. Up to two hours before serving time, steam the mussels. Bring the wine to a simmer in a large pot, add the mussels, cover tightly and cook over medium heat until they open, about 10 minutes. Leave the mussels in the covered pan until shortly before serving time.3. Saute the chorizos over medium heat in a six-quart casserole until they are cooked through, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove them from the casserole, draining them well, and set them aside on a plate covered with a paper towel. Leave the fat in the casserole. Add the remaining olive oil to the casserole.4. Add the onions and peppers to the casserole and cook over low heat, stirring, until the vegetables are soft but not brown. Stir in the garlic, cook briefly, then add the oregano. Stir in the rice and cook for several minutes, stirring, until the rice is well coated with the other ingredients. Remove the casserole from the heat.5. Drain the canned tomatoes, pricking them to drain the liquid inside. Reserve all the tomato liquid and chop the tomatoes fine. Stir the chopped tomatoes in with the rice.6. Measure the reserved tomato liquid. You should have about a cup and a half. Add a little water if necessary to make this amount. Place the tomato liquid in a saucepan along with the chicken stock and bring to a simmer. Stir in the saffron, remove from the heat and allow to steep for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, slice the cooled chorizo into rounds a half-inch thick.7. Place the casserole over medium-low heat and bring to a simmer. Stir in the pieces of chorizo, then stir in the tomato and chicken stock seasoned with the saffron. Bring to a simmer and add salt and pepper, if necessary. Cover and cook over low heat until all of the liquid is absorbed and the rice is done, which should take about 20 minutes. Set aside, covered for at least 20 minutes.8. While the rice is cooking, remove the shrimps from the refrigerator so they can come to room temperature.9. Preheat a broiler. Place the marinated chicken wings on a broiling pan and broil until they are browned and cooked through, about 25 minutes. Turn them once during the cooking. Transfer them to a large platter or bowl, cover with foil and set aside.Advertisement Continue reading the main story10. To serve, spoon the rice gently into one or more large mixing bowls to fluff it. Do not fill the bowls more than half full or you will have rice all over the floor. Taste the rice for seasoning and add more salt and pepper, if necessary, so that the seasoning will need no further adjusting.11. Gently fold the capers, parsley, shrimp and chicken wings in with the rice.12. Warm a large serving platter or shallow bowl. Even a big paella pan can be used as a serving dish. Transfer some or all of the paella to the platter or bowl. If there is not enough room for all the paella on one platter, you can use two platters or keep some of the paella reserved in the kitchen for refilling the platter.13. Briefly reheat the mussels in their broth, then arrange them, in their shells, around the edge of the platter, alternating them with the lemon wedges. Place the platter on the buffet table along with serving spoons. After all the guests have served themselves, rearrange the paella on the platter, refilling the platter, if necessary, or transferring the remaining paella to a smaller platter so it continues to look attractive.Yield: 20 to 24 servings.