“This is not a step that we take lightly,” the mayor said of the rationing. “But given the shortages we will face over the next few weeks and the growing frustrations of New Yorkers, we believe it is the right step.”Mr. Bloomberg said that only about 25 percent of the city’s roughly 800 gas stations were open at any given time and that the shortage could last another couple of weeks.He said the rationing rules would not apply to taxis and livery cabs, buses and emergency vehicles.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and other officials have warned repeatedly in the past week that panic buying and hoarding of gas by drivers who buy more than they need had only worsened the gas crisis in New York. The governor indicated that rationing in the city’s northern suburbs was not now planned.Government officials and industry experts have said that the hurricane not only cut off power to many gas stations but also caused widespread damage to refineries and a distribution network of ports and terminals that delivers gas to the pumps. So even as power has been restored in the city and elsewhere, gas has remained in short supply because distributors are unable to tap into their usual sources.PhotoThe Web site Gasbuddy.com, which has been tracking fuel availability in the New York region, reported on Thursday that 77 percent of New York City gas stations had no fuel, and 68 percent of Long Island stations were dry.“The severity of the gasoline problem in the New York metro area is unprecedented,” said Gregg Laskoski, a senior petroleum analyst for the Web site. “When there are infrastructure problems such as what occurred with Sandy, there are few alternatives available.”In New Jersey, municipal officials and gas station owners said the rationing system adopted by Gov. Chris Christie cut lines in half almost immediately in some communities, curtailing demand on a system that will need at least several weeks to recover.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Industry executives said that as many as 20 regional terminals were still not operating, and that work to repair them had been slowed by the snowstorm and could take weeks to complete. They also cited continuing disruptions in barge traffic to docks in Brooklyn and on Long Island for distribution of gas to stations around the area.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“Things had been getting better, and then we were walloped by the second storm,” said Jon Pepper, a Hess vice president. “And they are starting to get better again.”Mr. Pepper said Hess’s refinery in Port Reading and four other New Jersey terminals lost power and were flooded by the hurricane. Two of the terminals, in Edgewater and Woodbridge, resumed operations on Wednesday. Hess’s Bayonne and Newark terminals remained closed to barges; Hess executives could not say when they would reopen.In imposing rationing, Mr. Bloomberg noted that federal and local officials had already tried other steps, like expediting the opening of regional ports to barges and tankers carrying petroleum products. In addition, federal officials have sent millions of gallons of fuel to the New York region.“But once again, clearly it is not enough,” Mr. Bloomberg said. “Drivers are still facing long lines. Frustrations are only growing.”Police officials said they had already assigned officers to all open gas stations to maintain order and would not require additional officers to enforce the rationing system.Judy Jones, a teacher who was waiting for gas at a BP station at Second Avenue and First Street, said she supported the rationing. “It’ll make lines shorter, it’ll make it easier, you won’t have to wait in line for two hours,” she said. “New Jersey has it. We should’ve had it sooner.”