“We wanted a place that it wouldn’t take forever to get to, and we knew you can get more for your money west of the canal,” she said. “Westhampton felt homey and convenient and less crazy than places farther east.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyWith help from Craig Amodemo, the owner of Hampton Estates Realty, they soon saw a house they liked and offered the full asking price, but the owner decided not to sell. After a summer of looking, they hadn’t seen anything better.“And then we lucked out,” she said. “It was Labor Day weekend and Craig called and told us there was a house we had to see right away because he knew we’d like it and the price was right.”Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The house, which had a pool and was within biking distance of the village and ocean and was originally listed at $1.1 million, had just been approved for a short sale at $750,000. “My brother came with us to look at it and said if we didn’t buy it, he would,” Ms. Jansen said. They snapped it up, and closed in December 2010.“It’s just an hour and 20 minutes from the city, so we come out most every weekend, even during the winter,” she said. “We both have stressful jobs, but the minute we pull into the driveway, we’re just transported to a totally different head-space.”Vicky Reynolds, a fifth-generation East Ender, grew up in Remsenburg and is president of Norma Reynolds Sotheby’s International Realty, established more than 40 years ago in Westhampton Beach by her mother, Norma. Ms. Reynolds praises the conveniences of the west-of-canal lifestyle, especially for second-home buyers with an aversion to sitting in traffic with antsy children.“The main reason people are choosing to stay west of the canal is that our area is where the families are,” she said. “Our buyers from the city always tell us they love being able to get out to their summer homes with the kids in 90 minutes. They love having the ability to own a luxury waterfront home in a family-oriented area and still be so close to the glamour of farther east that they can frequent the same restaurants and be part of the scene — but at a much lower cost.”Tom Jones, a retired lawyer, and his wife, Riry, of Manhattan, knew precisely what they wanted in a vacation home: up-close water vistas and peace and quiet. After scouring the North Shore and Rhode Island and ruling out East Hampton “because the traffic was impossible,” they toured a listing in Remsenburg. They didn’t buy the house, but they fell for the area.Through Eileen Brod at Norma Reynolds, they found a Westhampton contemporary with a pool and 130 feet of bay frontage for $2.25 million. “We took one look at the views and went nuts,” Mr. Jones said.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAfter living in the 2,200-square-foot house for a year, they wound up knocking it down and building a 5,500-square-foot replacement “that brings the views inside,” he said. “Out here, it’s not about being in with the in-crowd. It doesn’t have the same social pressures.” The Joneses plan to eventually leave Manhattan and live in Westhampton full time.PhotoBuyers who insist on the sandy beaches farther east can expect to pay a stiff and ever-escalating premium. In the first quarter of 2014, the median home price in Southampton Village leapt to $4.2 million. The median cost of acquiring a home in Amagansett and Sag Harbor village more than doubled from a year ago, to $2.725 million from $1.22 million in Amagansett and to $1.695 million from $675,000 in Sag Harbor, according to a report by Judi Desiderio, the head of Town & Country Real Estate. The most affordable houses east of the canal were outside of the village proper in East Hampton, where the 2014 median was $816,000.The median in the villages and hamlets west of the canal, not including Hampton Bays, rose by 25 percent to $793,000, and the volume of sales in the area went up 38 percent. There was one sale for more than $10 million; sales in the $1 million to $3.49 million range doubled to 12 from 6.Hampton Bays, a hamlet in transition, continued to be the least expensive destination in the Hamptons, with a median price of $369,000. But it has its charms and champions, including the extended Cuomo family.“The area west of the canal doesn’t get the attention it probably deserves,” said Jonathan Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, an appraisal agency. “It represented 29.4 percent of the Hamptons market in the first quarter of 2014 with pricing at less than half, $456,000, of the areas to the east, at $1.18 million,” he said.“I’ve always viewed the area west of the canal as the intersection of affordability and second homes,” he added.In the past three years, he said, the median sales price for properties west of the canal increased 11.2 percent, clearly outpaced by east of the canal prices, which rose 36 percent.In the 1980s, Westhampton and Hampton Bays had a reputation for being party towns: group rentals glutted the area and night clubs made for noisy neighbors. But stricter town regulations brought that era to a close. The party has moved eastward.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“What Montauk is turning into is what Westhampton was in the ’80s, party central,” said Patrick Galway, an executive sales manager at Town & Country. “Instead of the day-trippers we used to get, families with young kids are choosing to summer west of the canal. When people in Quogue, Quiogue and Remsenburg hear there’s a public perception that they aren’t part of the Hamptons glitz, they tend to say ‘thank you.’ You probably won’t see the Kardashians opening a boutique in our area. The high-profile people who choose to live here are not looking to be noticed,” he added. “Same ocean, same sand, better deals.”Cary Glotzer, the chief executive of Tupelo-Honey Raycom, a video production company, had made it a mission to own a home in the Hamptons ever since he made his first summer visit as a teenager. By age 25, he had bought “a beat-up wreck of a house” in Southampton; after selling that, he bought a summer home in Water Mill, and a few years later sold it for a place in East Hampton. “We liked moving around and getting a feel for the different communities,” he said.Mr. Glotzer’s next purchase, a postmodern home in East Quogue, prompted a major lifestyle change. He decided to move his family out to the Hamptons year-round and to try a reverse commute to his office in the city. “My wife told me I was insane,” he said. “Now she loves living out here: you don’t lose any of the beauty of the Hamptons whatsoever when you go west of the canal.”To accomplish his goal, he moved one more time, selling the East Quogue house and buying a two-acre lot Mr. Galway found in Quogue’s estate section; it was listed at $1.7 million, but he acquired it for significantly less. Mr. Glotzer and his wife, Traci, and their three children now live there in a custom-built house “with all the bells and whistles, indoor basketball court included.”The west-of-canal commute, he said, seems to be catching on.“I used to be the only guy getting on the 6:30 a.m. jitney to Manhattan and had the row to myself,” he said. “Now there are days when I can barely get a seat.”