There’s a tremendous market for self-help literature aimed at Americans trying to get control of their possessions, an avalanche of books with bossy exclamatory titles like “Wear This, Toss That!” and “Unstuff Your Life!” and “Organize Now!” I say save space with this downbeat new memoir by Betty Hal­breich, the doyenne of Bergdorf Goodman. Within moments of finishing “I’ll Drink to That: A Life in Style, With a Twist,” I was not only “attacking” my closet, to use the organizational genre’s amusing jungle jargon, but enjoying the sensation of returning from a time machine: two adventures for the price of one.Well into her ninth decade, a far more preferable time to write a memoir than the now-modish year after college, Halbreich has become one of the grand department store’s greatest assets, despite a powerful aversion to cash registers. In her long career there, heading a personal-shopping office called Solutions (a name she also dislikes, remarking tartly, “This isn’t a drugstore”), she has advised a list of clients that includes major politicians, showbiz players and the silkiest of high-society swans. Who else in New York has earned the confidence of both Babe Paley (whose rumored use on her hair of Tintex fabric dye Halbreich bravely queried) and Lena Dunham (with whom Halbreich is collaborating on an HBO series)?But this book is less catalog of celebrity gossip than remembrance of things past, with the emphasis on things. An only child raised rather stiflingly in upper-­middle-class Chicago by her distant mother and stepfather, with her biological father exiled, and having few friends her own age, Betty drew comfort from the family’s staff — and the family’s stuff. The cookie molds were from Dallas, the vases Steuben, the handkerchiefs embroidered by nuns. And the wardrobes were endless dreamlands: “In this secret world of clothes, a world that I controlled, there was no need for the company of playmates, because the clothes were my playmates.”How everyone managed to squeeze into these garments is a mystery, since in Halbreich’s telling the family always seemed to be feasting on triple-cut lamp chops, cream of whatever soup and special sandwiches from Marshall Field’s, puddled in Thousand Island dressing. Halbreich might traffic in fashion, but she seems to reserve her most luxurious prose for bygone meals, for the relic of butter balls “rolled to the right consistency with wooden paddles and topped grandly with a sprig of parsley.” Marrying the scion of a high-living hotelier who turned out to have a drinking problem, she spent empty days scooping out cabbages for centerpieces. Their two children were less fussed over, though she enjoyed dressing them like dolls in “brother-sister” Florence Eiseman garments.