A. You have correctly identified the various motives; all of them likely play a part in Ms. Merkel’s decisions. In addition, I would note aspects of her biography: Ms. Merkel is the daughter of a Lutheran minister and she grew up in communist East Germany.Image Refugees rode a train through Macedonia, from its southern border with Greece to its northern border with Serbia, in August. Credit Sergey Ponomarev for The New York TimesThe tone of her remarks since Germany received thousands of asylum seekers trapped in Hungary in early September has reflected a particular German obligation to offer asylum to those in danger that was not offered to Jews and other victims of the Nazis. But Ms. Merkel’s words also reflect a concern and sympathy for her fellow humans that was surely part of her upbringing. ALISON SMALEQ. Are all the refugees arriving in Europe illegally, dealing with smugglers using unsafe boats? Is there no legal, safe way for them to reach Europe? Do countries who feel an obligation to accept them also have an obligation to provide one? — David Barnert, Albany, N.Y.A. Nearly all asylum seekers arrive illegally, in the sense that they do not have official entry visas. But the United Nations refugee convention states that people who face a clear danger of persecution or threat to their lives have a right to seek protection in another country, even when they do not have prior approval to enter that country.All asylum seekers can, in theory, apply in their home country for visas at the embassy of the country that they want to enter, but this is a long and laborious process. It also tends to weed out people who do not have a legitimate case for asylum; migrants who are seeking better economic opportunities usually prefer to take their chances and pay smugglers to get them to Europe before applying.Some of these migrants might believe that once they are in a country, it will be very difficult for that country to get them to leave if they are not granted asylum. Lots of people are rejected, but few are deported. And the process can take years.Countries that are party to the United Nations convention are obliged to examine the asylum claim of anyone who shows up at their border asking for refuge, but they are not obliged to provide safe passage to that border. It is up to the refugee to get to wherever he or she wants to go. ANDREW HIGGINS