Josh Reynolds/Associated PressThe case of Adam Wheeler, the Delaware man accused by Massachusetts authorities of fabricating much of the transfer application that earned him acceptance to Harvard in 2007, is sure to reverberate through admissions and guidance offices over the next few weeks and months.As my colleague Katie Zezima and I report in an article in today’s Times, Mr. Wheeler, 23, duped the Harvard admissions office with fake, straight-A transcripts from M.I.T. (he’d actually been suspended from Bowdoin College) and Phillips Andover (he was a graduate of a public high school in Delaware), according to prosecutors.Mr. Wheeler has pleaded not guilty to 20 counts, including larceny (he received nearly $50,000 in scholarships and prizes from Harvard) and identity fraud.With Harvard officials refusing to comment on the case — they have cited the ongoing criminal inquiry and federal safeguards on student privacy — readers of The Choice are left to ponder a central question: how could someone tell such brazen lies to the admissions office of one of the nation’s most prestigious colleges, and get away with it?Those of us who were working at The Times in 2003 can’t help but be reminded of our own experience with Jayson Blair, a reporter who deceived editors and readers by inserting fabrications and other falsehoods in several dozen articles before being caught.Admissions and financial aid officers at Yale and Princeton have been similarly duped in recent years, as Ms. Zezima and I report.The relationship between an applicant and an admissions officer, like that between a reporter and an editor, is ultimately based on trust. For all the checks and balances intended to safeguard both endeavors, someone who sets out to deliberately and elaborately deceive may well succeed, at least in the short run.That was a point made to me yesterday by Ted de Villafranca, a former admissions officer at Manhattanville College and the University of Richmond who is dean of college counseling at the Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J.“There is an expectation that students in this situation act honorably and truthfully,” he said. “You’re actually signing that you have done that — that the application is a true and accurate representation of who you are and what you’ve accomplished.”“It is not in our inherent nature in our industry to be suspicious,” he added. “This is not ‘C.S.I. Harvard.’ ”Moreover, the Harvard admissions office must screen nearly 30,000 undergraduate applications a year.That said, Mr. Wheeler appears to have exposed at least one potential weakness in the Harvard process: as a transfer applicant several years removed from high school, his counselor — ostensibly from Phillips Andover — might not have been contacted by Harvard about his application.And yet, one reason Mr. Wheeler’s apparent falsehoods came to light was the due diligence of the admissions office at a competing institution, Yale.After leaving Harvard in September, over allegations of plagiarism involving his Rhodes Scholarship application, Mr. Wheeler applied as a transfer student to Yale and Brown. (After a Harvard English professor discovered the apparent Rhodes Scholarship plagiarism, officials there revisited Mr. Wheeler’s original transfer application from 2007, and determined that his credentials from M.I.T. and Phillips Andover were false, according to prosecutors.)Kevin Fitzgerald, the former principal of Mr. Wheeler’s high school in Delaware, told my colleague Rita Farrell on Tuesday that a Yale admissions official called the school in April to fact-check aspects of Mr. Wheeler’s transfer application.A guidance counselor was alarmed to learn from Yale that Mr. Wheeler had represented himself as a class valedictorian (he was not, though he was ranked in the top 10 percent), that he had perfect SAT scores (he did no better than 1220 out of 1600, according to prosecutors) and that he had taken more Advanced Placement classes than he did.Yale then shared its concerns with Mr. Wheeler’s parents, who in turn urged him to tell the truth to Yale. “That conversation between our guidance office and the Yale admissions officer sent up the red flags,” Mr. Fitzgerald said.I hope the admissions officers and guidance counselor who are readers of The Choice will use the comment box below to write to us with their perspective on this complicated and, ultimately, sad case. I would also like to hear from applicants, students and their parents.