On Sept. 30, it will be five years since the C.I.A. drone strike in Yemen that killed Mr. Awlaki, the first United States citizen executed without trial on orders of a president since the Civil War. But the Hellfire missile that ended his life promoted him to martyrdom in the eyes of his fans, and his influence has turned up in terrorism case after terrorism case. His videos, forecasting a West in which Muslims would increasingly be denigrated, marginalized and threatened with expulsion or worse, have been viewed by hundreds of thousands.Image Anwar al-Awlaki speaking in a video message posted on radical websites in 2010. Credit Site Intelligence Group, via Associated PressFor years those prognostications fell flat. But had he lived to see it, the last year might have given Mr. Awlaki a belated sense of vindication. In the United States, a major party presidential candidate proposed a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” drawing raucous applause. Outspoken anti-Muslim politicians in Europe have won unprecedented support. In a tragicomic spectacle in France, armed police officers surrounded a Muslim woman in a bathing outfit designed for religious modesty, as if her garb posed some dire threat.At rallies and on social media in many countries, anxious people cry that Muslims are the enemy, and the number of hate crimes aimed at them has ballooned. “This presidential election has redefined social norms in America,” Hazem Bata, the secretary general of the Islamic Society of North America, said at the group’s convention this month. “Things that were only said behind closed doors one year ago are now said out in the open, on TV, on radio, without any sense of embarrassment.”The anti-Muslim language, of course, has grown in part from real tragedies. In San Bernardino, Calif., and Orlando, Fla., and in Paris, Brussels and Nice, France, a few people chose to obey Mr. Awlaki’s twisted command, later echoed by the Islamic State, that any Muslim in Europe or America has a duty to carry out attacks at home.In the United States, jihadist killings in the 15 years since the Sept. 11 attacks remain a rounding error — fewer than 100 killed out of more than 220,000 homicides. But terrorism, a word with roots in the Latin for “to cause to tremble,” gets that name for a reason. By shooting up a nightclub or mowing down people with a truck, ostensibly in the name of Islam, attackers send the message that no one is safe — and that any Muslim may be a threat.