THE LAND OF STEADY HABITSBy Ted ThompsonLittle, Brown, $25.The hapless Anders Hill, an affluent retiree living in suburban Connecticut, has just left his wife of 40 years, having asked for a divorce in the back of a taxi. Like V. S. Pritchett’s Mr. Beluncle, Anders blames his family for his misery and thinks that “if he could just get himself alone, away from all their demands and his absurd sense of duty, then he would be O.K.” His long-suffering wife, Helene, seems relieved to be rid of him. “It’s not my job to babysit you anymore,” she says. Within months, Helene — who suddenly discovers “wells of fury” inside her that she’d stifled for years — takes up with Donny Fitzsimmons, her college boyfriend. (She loves him “even though” he’s a Republican.) The Hills’ older son is somewhat forgiving toward Anders, while his younger brother, a black sheep of sorts, has stopped speaking to his father. Other, supplemental dramas are tossed in: a cancer diagnosis for Helene; money troubles for Anders; the worrisome path of the drug-addicted son of Helene’s best friend. Yet there never seems to be much at stake for these characters — nor for the reader — and Anders’s late-life existential crisis is largely resolved by an impulsive real estate purchase. Although Thompson conveys well Anders’s abundant cluelessness, Helene’s lonely reflections (“She had started to feel like the last of a breed, a maple after all the leaves had scattered”) offer the novel’s most absorbing passages.ON EARTH AS IT IS IN HEAVENBy Davide EniaTranslated by Antony ShugaarFarrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.Published originally in Italian, this coming-of-age story follows an introspective 9-year-old, Davidù, growing up in 1980s Palermo, the “filthy and violent” Sicilian capital. On a typical day, police sirens wail, bombs explode and “the news anchor reported yet another Mafia blood bath.” No one goes out at night. Davidù’s father was a much admired boxer, known as the Paladin, who died in a motorcycle accident before his son was born. The Paladin was never a national champion, and Davidù becomes obsessed with winning that elusive title. He trains intensively with his great-uncle, Umbertino, a wily former boxer who isn’t above (or below) baiting Mafiosi in a cafe or imparting his extensive knowledge of sexual positions to his curious young nephew. Interspersed throughout are rich stories of family history: his father’s childhood and boxing career, his grandfather surviving a North African P.O.W. camp and life lessons from the grandmother Davidù adores and reveres. With her passion for linguistics and grammar, she never hesitates to remind her grandson that “knowledge is better than ignorance,” and that he must be precise in his self-expression. As Davidù grapples with his identity and Sicilian notions of manhood, he becomes infatuated with an elusive young woman named Nina. Enia, a playwright, is as adept at capturing the chaotic vibe of his native city (“Arteries that turn into piazzas, alleys that dovetail at diagonal angles”) as he is at depicting the quick, furious violence of the boxing ring and the casual brutalities of boyhood.