The jockeying for this honor has, unsurprisingly, already begun. All across Los Angeles, young actresses from this year’s batch of talked-about films — including Felicity Jones (“Like Crazy”), Rooney Mara (“The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo”), Elizabeth Olsen (“Martha Marcy May Marlene”) and Shailene Woodley (“The Descendants”) — are working round-the-clock with stylists, sometimes hastily acquired, to try to come up with “that one major dress,” as Ms. Welch put it.“It’s all about that moment where everything has to be perfect,” she said. “Everything has to align. The hair and makeup, the clothes, the fit.”On a recent Saturday, for example, the dark-haired, limpid-eyed Ms. Jones, 28, who plays a love-struck college student in the indie film “Like Crazy,” was going over designer collections with the stylist Jessica Paster.“She came to my house, she’s so sweet,” Ms. Paster said. “I love chai lattes, and she brought me and my assistant, Brie, a chai latte.”Ms. Paster continued, “She loved the Givenchy, the resort collection, and Alexander McQueen.”The women also sought inspiration from “pictures of old actresses, their styles, their silhouettes” and classic films, Ms. Paster said, adding that her client was smitten with Grace Kelly in “Rear Window.”Ms. Jones is high on the list of Ones to Watch this season. Named the new face of Dolce & Gabbana cosmetics, the spritelike Briton, who also appeared in Burberry’s fall 2011 campaign, has been evoking Audrey Hepburn-like glamour by mixing flirty, gamine looks, like the floral Dolce & Gabbana cocktail dress she wore to the New York premiere of “Like Crazy,” with more modern and subdued choices. At last month’s Gotham Independent Film Awards, where she won the breakthrough-actor award, Ms. Jones was radiant in an understated, mint-colored Proenza Schouler shift.“She’s been killing it on the red carpet,” said the stylist Ilaria Urbinati, who works with Elle Fanning, at 13 another whippersnapper fashion darling. “She’s the new Carey Mulligan to me, the one wearing really ladylike, sweet dresses, and not dressing too sexy or too provocatively, but still very interesting.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMs. Mara, who is 26, is playing it more daring, bringing the punk-hacker aesthetic of Lisbeth Salander, her character in David Fincher’s film “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo,” off screen, in the form of severe bumper bangs, black lipstick and revealing cutout dresses. (Though her “moment,” thus far, was when she softened things up at the London premiere of her film, wearing an angelic white Givenchy couture gown that had critics swooning.)Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The drastic turnaround from Ms. Mara’s pre-“Dragon Tattoo” look — which was more girl next door, in keeping with her role as Mark Zuckerberg’s girlfriend in “The Social Network” — has elicited intrigue at fashion’s highest level: in November, Ms. Mara appeared on the cover of Vogue.“First of all, she has a Vogue cover,” said the stylist and frequent red-carpet commentator Phillip Bloch. “Second of all, she has a Vogue cover. And third of all, she has a Vogue cover. So she’s already ahead of the pack.”Ariel Foxman, the editor of InStyle magazine, said that actresses like Ms. Mara reflected a more assertive personal style than this year’s young starlets were displaying, in comparison with past seasons when a lot of actresses were perhaps doing the rather safe red-carpet presentation.” Most memorably, Ms. Lawrence wore a red va-va-voom Calvin Klein tank dress to the Oscars, making her look as if she’d just stepped off the set of “Baywatch.” Mr. Foxman suggested that when it came to the red carpet, there was no sartorial innocence anymore. (Certainly the youngest-ever best-supporting-actress nominee Tatum O’Neal’s accepting her award in a tux at age 10, as she did in 1974, seems unimaginable today.)“When I look at these women from 2011, they clearly know what they like, and they’ve made a consistent decision to present themselves in a certain way,” he said. “I can’t imagine anyone having started off as a blank slate.”That is certainly true of Ms. Olsen, 22, who’s grown up surrounded by fashion, thanks to her older sisters, Mary-Kate and Ashley, the famed progenitors of the boho-chic obsession for garbage-bag-size handbags and form-swallowing peasant dresses. Though so far, the sporty blond Elizabeth has defied expectations by opting for a cleaner, more wholesome style. At the Cannes Film Festival last spring, where her film “Martha Marcy May Marlene” screened after its rapturous reception at the Sundance Film Festival, she turned heads in a white, lacy, tiered dress — from her sisters’ high-end line, the Row — paired with crystal-embedded sandals by Giuseppe Zanotti.“Cannes was sort of her coming-out ball,” Ms. Urbinati said. “It’s not what you would expect someone who was up-and-coming to wear. It was white and a little bit flappery looking.”A less consistent fashion force is Shailene Woodley, 20, the scrubbed, usually ponytailed star of ABC Family’s “Secret Life of the American Teenager,” who plays George Clooney’s rebellious daughter in the Oscar-hopeful film “The Descendants.” At its Los Angeles premiere, she won raves in a floral Dolce & Gabbana dress, which made her look youthful yet glamorous — and vaguely Hawaiian, in keeping with the film’s theme. But the shapeless, gray Jeremy Laing dress worn to the New York Film Festival wrought a torrent of blogosphere snark. “Is that a poncho coming out of her right arm, a mesh blanket, a fishing net?!” the pop culture Web site The Insider said.“I’m very curious to see that one,” Mr. Bloch said of Ms. Woodley. “She’s the dark horse to me. She seems very high school girl, very unglamorous, like she was plucked out of nowhere. But I’d love to see her pull it off.”Advertisement Continue reading the main storyBut in the end, how much does being fashionable matter to a dramatic career? Ms. Woodley, after all, and Ms. Mara are the only starlets in this article who have Globe nominations for their roles. Is it a concern, even, that the dress might upstage the actress? Consider how Sienna Miller stormed the scene around the time of “Factory Girl,” in 2006, yet remains more recognized for her fashions than her films. Or how Gwyneth Paltrow’s career has cooled somewhat despite her consistency as a style arbiter.Being hot in fashion “keeps you on lists, keeps you out there with good buzz, but it doesn’t have literal box office value,” said Lynda Obst, a veteran producer.“It’s not what gets you cast in a movie,” she added. The best career enhancer, she advised, is not a fashion campaign but playing a “crazy person” or starring in an indie.“If the red carpet is all you’re doing,” Ms. Obst said, “you run the risk of being Kim Kardashian.”