Victor J. Blue for The New York TimesBelow, we present some alternatives to that classic classroom assignment, the book report. All of our ideas are inspired by The New York Times in some way, either because we’ve adapted an interesting format, or because we were inspired by an article, review, essay, interview or multimedia feature.Do you assign book reports, in any format, to your students? What do they look like? Join the conversation!A Times-Style Book ReviewRead The Times’s Books section to scan several current book reviews of novels, story collections and poetry, and to use the search feature to find reviews of older books. Next, make a list of common elements. These might include a summary of the plot or main points or themes, comparisons or references to the writer’s earlier works, discussion of the writer’s contemporaries or influences, how the reviewer assesses the work’s quality; connections (if any) the reviewer has to the subject matter; and the like.Next, write your own Times-style review of a book, incorporating many of these elements. If The Times has also reviewed the book you’ve chosen, avoid reading it until you have crafted your own review, of course.Book Talk, With You as HostCreate a podcast around a book or author, perhaps inspired by the format of those found in the Times’ Book Review. You might act as host and introduce several different segments, such as a mock interview with the author or an expert on the topic, or a discussion of how a classic book is suddenly timely.You might also include free-form segments like “The Book That Changed My Life,” “What We’re Reading,” or “My First-Ever Favorite Book.” You could vary these with “advertisements” for books, top-10 lists of favorite authors or characters, or news about book-related events, such as online book discussions or local events such as readings given by authors.For classic works, you might set the podcast in the time of its publication, considering other works popular at the time, the issues of the day and so on. Or, include an “interview” with the author, drawing from research such as published interviews, profiles, memoirs and biographies to ground the portrayal in fact. Another idea? Role-play a conversation of writers from the past or present sitting down together to talk about one another’s work, or their own works in progress, with the podcast acting as the “tape recorder” that captures the whole thing.Judging the Book by Its CoverStart by considering how a cover “sells” a book and serves as a quick visual reference, and make a quick list of favorite or most memorable covers. Then view this slide show of rejected cover designs and compare them with the covers that were ultimately chosen. Are the final ones better? Why?Next, create paintings or other illustrations to honor a book you’re reading. You might do this in homage to the covers of favorite books, or you might create a cover for a work that doesn’t have its own cover, such as a piece you read in an anthology or story collection. The covers can be representative of the setting, a key scene, main characters or major plot event, or be more abstract or conceptual, capturing the tone of the work, a theme or character’s mental state.Or, you might want to create covers in the style of a favorite artist.Shot on LocationChoose key scenes from a novel that is set in a real place and find photos or illustrations online that show the locations described by the author. (You can choose photos that fit the novel’s descriptions if the setting is not directly named or is not a real place.)Another option is to choose an author and show the places from a variety of his or her works, such as this feature about novelist Haruki Murakami, which includes a photo, related excerpt and voice recording of the person who chose them. As a low-tech alternative, you might draw, and annotate with relevant passages, maps of novels’ environs or all the settings used in a writer’s oeuvre.For a longer-term project, visit the real life “stomping grounds” of a fictional character or visit places with a rich literary history and create a blog or podcast about them. You might record yourself reading relevant passages or discussing the works in the very spot the author(s) wrote about.Bring the BeatCreate (and record, and add liner notes explaining) a soundtrack for a book you’re reading, or invent a rap about it, as these Stanford students did about the biology of how the body converts food into energy.Making Lists of FavoritesCheck out the New York Times Best Seller List from weeks past and present, noting the categories found there. Use or tweak the categories to take a poll of classmates, teachers, parents, school and public librarians and other readers to learn what books they are currently reading or have recently read. Then, work with others to make your own lists — whether of local favorites; of books read in school over the years; or, perhaps, of genre suggestions along the lines of “If you liked the ‘Harry Potter’ books, you’ll love…”.You and your classmates might then each choose one book to write up in the style of an Inside the List blurb that tells about the book, its author, its audience or all of these. Or, create “shelf talkers” about some of these books for your school library modeled after those in this bookstore.Annotate Lists on One TopicChoose an author, genre, time period, historical event, place or other relatively general topic and research books by or about the subject, perhaps starting with the Times’ Sunday Book Review or Book News and Reviews.Create annotated lists of published works about it, like this one on the Civil War, organized by category, chronology or other technique. You might then create brochure or Web pages, or a library display, as part of a class collection called “So You Want to Know About…”Rate and DebateBrainstorm thought-provoking questions about a common text, such as what might have happened five years before the events in a novel begin, 25 years after they end, or what would happen if a key plot point was changed. Then, ask several people to weigh in and give short answers in order to create a Room for Debate- style response.Book Report by VideoWork with others in small groups to create short videos about a book or author you have read. You might voice-over narration and and include interviews, as in this example which is about the “Babar” series of children’s books.Be creative about your interviewees. For instance, you might talk to fans of a book series waiting until midnight for the release of the next installment; people of the same generation about what a seminal book meant to them as children; or experts like teachers, professors and historians who can weigh in on the significance of a often-taught book, or on a book controversy.Another approach to the video is to stage key scenes from novels or stories, or record dramatic readings, with sound effects. Or, make an author and his or her works the subject of a video, with an actor portraying him or her and reenacting important career and life events.The Graphic Novel VersionEverything from the Bible to “Twilight” to “The Art of War” is being turned into a graphic novel. How would the book you’re currently reading be transformed by this genre? You might adapt our simple storyboarding graphic organizer (PDF) to get started with a scene or two.Book Blurbs on BlogsRead the “books” category of the ArtsBeat blog for a week or more, researching the topics mentioned there. Then, work on short blog posts of your own that go into greater detail, or give the “back story,” about each news item for your audience. For example, a recent post about new and ongoing manga series might inspire a segment on manga in general.Why Your Favorite Author MattersWrite persuasive essays that combine research, critical analysis of major works and personal accounts that raise and answer the question “Why does this author matter?”You might begin by reading Sunday Book Review essays with similar aims, such as this one about Lionel Trilling, this “Riff” column about Joan Didion, or by reading the back issues of the review.You can also search Times Topics pages which collect all the news, reference and archival information, photos, graphics, audio and video files published on topic, and find nearly any published author — whether Stephen King or Shakespeare —. Use them as a starting point for research.Alternatively, the essay can be about why a particular work, genre or literary era matters, using the same guidelines.The Book Report of the FutureHas the format of the book report assignment in your school morphed over time? If so, how? What do you imagine a “book report” in 2025 might look like? Use our post on the the “future of reading” that examines how technology is changing reading, readers and books to propose new formats for presenting reader responses to literature.For instance, perhaps you and your classmates can join or create an online book sharing and reviewing community, design a book app, or write about the difference between reading a paper-and-ink book and an e-book or some other digital format.Related Lessons from The Learning Network10 Ways to Use The New York Times for Teaching Literature“Going Beyond the Book Report With Literature Exhibits”“Our Computers, Ourselves: Imagining the Digital Lives of Authors and Characters”“Join the Club: Supporting Independent Reading with Book Groups”“Short and Sweet: Deconstructing and Crafting Brief Arts Reviews“We’re Booked”“Reviews Revealed”Other Learning Network ResourcesFill-In | The First Times’ Review of the First Harry Potter NovelResource | Ten Ways to Celebrate Banned Books Week