In recounting how the case came to light, Assistant District Attorney John Verner told the court of a phone call that Mr. Wheeler’s parents, Lee and Richard, received from Yale University this year.By then, Mr. Wheeler had left Harvard, rather than face an academic hearing over accusations he had plagiarized the work of a Harvard professor in his application for a Rhodes Scholarship. He then applied as a transfer student yet again, this time to Yale and Brown.After Yale contacted Mr. Wheeler’s parents, who were in court on Tuesday, to express doubts about the veracity of parts of his transfer application, they insisted that their son tell Yale the truth.“Mr. Wheeler’s life of deception would not have stopped if it were not for his parents,” Mr. Verner said.Mr. Wheeler’s defense lawyer, Steven Sussman, said after the hearing that his client “pleaded not guilty, as everyone heard” and that “he’s never been in trouble before.”Wearing a denim jacket and a T-shirt, his gaze mostly downward, Mr. Wheeler listened as Mr. Verner spun a narrative reminiscent of the movie “The Talented Mr. Ripley.”But the prosecutor provided no answer to a central question: how had Mr. Wheeler slipped through the Harvard admissions committee?Advertisement Continue reading the main storyHarvard officials declined Tuesday to comment on the case, citing the inquiry and federal rules on student privacy.Other prestigious colleges have seen similar cases before. Two years ago, Yale determined that a student who successfully transferred from Columbia had forged his transcript to give himself straight A’s. Connecticut authorities later charged him with larceny, over the $32,000 in scholarships he’d received.In 1993, another man pleaded guilty to theft by deception in New Jersey, for obtaining $22,000 in financial aid from Princeton.Edward de Villafranca, dean of college counseling at the Peddie School in Hightstown, N.J., said that such applicants can sometimes slip through admissions screening because “there is an expectation that students in this situation act honorably and truthfully.”“It is not in our inherent nature in our industry to be suspicious,” added Mr. de Villafranca, who has worked in admissions at Manhattanville College and the University of Richmond. “This is not ‘C.S.I. Harvard.’ “PhotoMr. de Villafranca said that Mr. Wheeler had likely exploited one potential loophole: because he applied to Harvard as a transfer student several years removed from high school, his school counselor — ostensibly at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., — might not have been contacted by Harvard about his application.Mr. Wheeler had come close to being caught at Harvard after his admission interview with a Harvard alumnus. It took place in 2007 at Bowdoin, which, Mr. Verner said, was a red flag to the alumni interviewer, who had been told he was meeting a student from M.I.T.But, as was apparently so often the case with Mr. Wheeler, he had a ready answer for the alumnus, who was not identified.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Wheeler said he had finished his M.I.T. coursework early, telling the alumnus, “Instead of wasting time I decided to come to Bowdoin to help a professor work on a book,” according to Mr. Verner.It was not immediately clear whether the alumnus’s skepticism, and Mr. Wheeler’s response, were ever passed on to officials at Harvard. (As Harvard would later learn, he had been suspended from Bowdoin for “academic dishonesty,” according to the indictment.)Even before Yale reached out to Mr. Wheeler’s parents this spring, officials and professors at Harvard had their own concerns.In September, when Mr. Wheeler began his senior year at Harvard, an English professor read his Rhodes submission and saw similarities between it and the work of a colleague. When confronted by Harvard faculty members, Mr. Wheeler remarked, “I must have made a mistake, I didn’t really plagiarize it,” according to Mr. Verner. He soon withdrew from Harvard.Harvard officials then began reviewing his transfer application, and discovered it had been falsified — including the M.I.T. and Andover transcripts, Mr. Verner said.Harvard said in a statement Tuesday that “in the rare instance where we discover that someone has falsified his or her application materials to Harvard College, we typically rescind that individual’s admission” and “revoke” any course credits received.Separately, Yale began its own inquiry when Mr. Wheeler applied for transfer admission earlier this year.Officials at Caesar Rodney High School in Camden, Del., from which Mr. Wheeler graduated in 2005, said they were contacted in April by Yale admissions officials. Yale wanted to confirm that he was the class valedictorian (he was not, though he was in the top 10 percent of the class) and that his SAT scores were perfect (they were several hundred points lower.)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyMr. Wheeler’s father taught shop and drafting at the high school, and retired last year. “It seemed out of character that the young man we knew would would try to pull off this type of hoax,” said Kevin Fitzgerald, the district superintendent, who was principal of Caesar Rodney when Mr. Wheeler attended. “That conversation between our guidance office and the Yale admissions officer sent up the red flags.”But there were other red flags. In February, Mr. Wheeler applied for an internship at McLean Hospital, an affiliate of Harvard Medical School, in which he “provided fraudulent information regarding his credentials and student status at Harvard,” the hospital said in a statement.In applying to Yale and Brown, though, he not only suggested he was a McLean employee, but also submitted a false letter of recommendation from the McLean official who had refused to hire him.He also provided Yale and Brown with a falsified recommendation from David Smith, his resident dean at Harvard, the district attorney’s office said.It was Dr. Smith who had informed Mr. Wheeler of the plagiarism accusations regarding his Rhodes application.The New Republic reported Tuesday that Mr. Wheeler had recently applied for an internship at the magazine, and it posted the resume he submitted online.It included references to his being able to speak French, as well as “Old English” “Classical Armenian” and “Old Persian.”