Mr. Trump will be able to use his authority to reverse executive actions taken by President Obama. He will also have significant latitude to carry out new immigration policies, though they would require an ambitious bureaucratic effort.Mentioned in almost all speeches. Suspend immigration from “terror-prone regions” Mr. Trump's controversial call to ban all Muslims from the United States seems to have evolved into a promise to bar people from certain regions rather than religions. He will have the power to carry out this plan, but it would make sweeping use of executive authority and require an ambitious bureaucratic effort not likely to move as quickly as he envisions. More »Mentioned in almost all speeches. End foreign trade abuses Mr. Trump says he will direct his commerce secretary and trade representative on Day 1 to identify and end alleged abuses. The White House has plenty of leeway to penalize other nations it accuses of undercutting American manufacturers.Mentioned in most speeches. Choose Supreme Court nominee Mr. Trump has released a list of 21 possible candidates vetted by conservative legal groups to fill the Supreme Court vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. The nominee will then be subject to approval by the Senate. More »Mentioned in about half of speeches. Leave the Trans-Pacific Partnership Since the deal was never approved by Congress, Mr. Trump will not have to do anything to get out of the pact. More »Mentioned in about half of speeches. Label China a currency manipulator Mr. Trump has repeatedly accused China of keeping its currency artificially cheap, though many economists believe the renminbi is overvalued, not undervalued.Mentioned in about half of speeches. Limit federal regulations Mr. Trump promised to eliminate two existing federal regulations for every new one. The executive branch has the power to undo regulations through the same lengthy bureaucratic process that is used when they are created. More »Mentioned in a few speeches. Roll back environmental regulations Mr. Trump could undo the Obama administration's environmental rules through the same lengthy bureaucratic process that was used when they were created. (In some cases, Congress could also vote to undo them.) He has also vowed to “cancel” last year’s Paris climate agreement. The United States remains legally bound to the plan for four years, but there would be no legal consequences or economic sanctions if Mr. Trump does not follow through with the commitment to limit carbon emissions. More »Mentioned in a few speeches. Rescind Obama's actions on guns Mr. Trump's 100-day plan says he will "cancel every unconstitutional executive action, memorandum and order issued by President Obama." The gun actions are some that he frequently cited. More »Mentioned in a few speeches. Approve the Keystone XL pipeline Mr. Trump said he will lift “Obama-Clinton roadblocks” on energy infrastructure projects like the Keystone XL pipeline. He could grant the State Department the permit that the Obama administration has denied for the project.Mentioned in a few speeches. Tighten lobbying restrictions Mr. Trump said he will issue a five-year lobbying ban on White House officials, a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying for a foreign government and a ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for United States elections. His transition team has already asked administration appointees to sign a form agreeing to the policies. More »Mentioned in a few speeches. Freeze federal hiring Mr. Trump pledged to implement a hiring freeze on the federal workforce. Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan put freezes into effect during their presidencies, but a 1982 comptroller general report determined that the “freezes have not been an effective means of controlling federal employment.”Mentioned in a few speeches. Overturn protections for certain undocumented immigrants The 100-day plan does not specifically cite the immigration actions, but Mr. Trump has said he will overturn them. One Obama administration program protects immigrants who came to the United States as children. Another program, which was blocked by the courts, offered protection to a broader group.Mentioned in a few speeches. Cancel payments to U.N. climate programs Mr. Trump seems to be referring to money committed by the Obama administration to the Green Climate Fund, created to help poor countries control their greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change.