The news could be better. Mr. St. Germain has cleverly set his play on Sept. 3, 1939, which would have been a very good day for God to have made a personal appearance in London. War with Germany was imminent — and terrifying to both the dying, 83-year-old Jewish refugee from Vienna and the 40-year-old World War I veteran visiting from Oxford. Lewis is late for their appointment because the trains are being commandeered to help empty London’s schools, hospitals and jails ahead of the expected Luftwaffe bombing raids.“Freud’s Last Session” is, above all, a play of ideas. “It’s men, not God, not Lucifer, who created prisons, slavery, bombs,” contends Lewis. “Man’s suffering is the fault of man.” Freud counters with a question: “Is that your excuse for pain and suffering?”But Mr. Hagerty and his two actors do not allow the theological dispute to deflect attention from the human dimension of this encounter. There is a clear generation gap between Freud, in a handsome three-piece gray suit designed by Kimberly Matela, and Lewis, whom she has dressed in tan slacks and a blazer. When Freud welcomes Lewis to Mr. Bolen’s carefully observed study, complete with leather chaise, vintage radio and Freud family photographs, Mr. Michalski casts a perplexed, contemptuous glance at the rather smashed-up hat that Mr. Cristaldi has just handed him. The younger man’s skittish nerves find expression in Mr. Cristaldi’s subtle, apt performance; and his host’s quietly preening self-regard is artfully conveyed by Mr. Michalski, until it’s completely undone by the pain from Freud’s advanced oral cancer.There’s a faint echo of Vladimir and Estragon waiting for you-know-who as Lewis and Freud get down to cases. Even with a blast from an air-raid siren and the ominous roar of airplanes overhead — among several well-executed effects by the sound designer, Matt Stine — we can see that Freud and Lewis are working hard to maintain their composure and good humor.They may be meeting to try to resolve the conflict between science and religion, but their conversation veers to their parents, the power of music, the meaning of Hitler and the entertainment value of flatulence. They both make jokes about the couch in the room. Lewis razzes Freud for being obsessed with sex; Freud mocks Lewis’s deference to authority. And King George VI has the play’s last, deeply ironic word, as he delivers the famous speech telling the British people that “with God’s help” they would prevail over Germany.