Did you get Comoro Islands, part of an archipelago off the East African coast? I didn’t. (Nor Somalia.) The display that accompanies the map identifies the Arab world by three components: culture, language and membership in the Arab League — and of course dispels the notorious misconception that “Arab” and “Muslim” are synonymous. There were deeper takeaways, as well: I had to be reminded that there were Arab Jews, which led me to recall that a minority faction of my father’s German Jewish family believes we have roots in Iraq during the Ottoman Empire. That led to a surprising thought: If true, then I may be an Arab-American.The second floor, which is the heart of the museum, is mostly about the Arab-American immigrant experience; with its oral interviews, plane tickets and letters between family members, it reminded me of the Ellis Island Immigration Museum. (I later learned that one of the museum’s exhibitions will travel to Ellis Island next summer.)There were plenty of surprises in the “Coming to America” section: that World’s Fairs in 1876 (Philadelphia) and 1893 (Chicago) attracted many Arabs and some of them stayed; or that there are records of Arabic-speaking slaves in colonial America. But “Living in America” was at times almost unsettlingly mundane, with a clear message: Arab-Americans are like all other Americans. In a kitchen display, for example, I noticed a cookbook by the New York Times columnist Jane Brody on the shelf. “Pretty sure she’s not Arab,” I thought.But after the last section, “Making an Impact,” I was no longer sure. The exhibition celebrates prominent Americans of Arab descent, with plenty of unexpected names, including the consumer advocate Ralph Nader, the astronaut Christa McAuliffe and one of my childhood heroes, the quarterback Doug Flutie. All have Lebanese roots.Before I left, I visited “The Youth,” an exhibition with photographic portraits and video interviews with 13 young Somali-American men. (It’s by the photographer Mohamud Mumin and will be up until Jan. 3.) The stress is, once again, on their utter normalness. As one, Ahmed Hirsi, says: “I would love for America to see us as they would see others.” That could be the mission statement for the museum as a whole.The museum turned out to be a great resource for my next priority: food. A good free map highlighted dozens of local Middle Eastern restaurants, which are mostly but not entirely Lebanese. I decided to go cheap Lebanese for lunch and mix it up with a Yemeni dinner.