The police urged people to avoid the area around Trump Tower during Mr. Trump’s visit, when numerous streets will be closed around one of the city’s busiest thoroughfares. Starting at midnight on Sunday, 58th and 55th Streets will be shut to traffic from Madison Avenue to Sixth Avenue, and there will be restricted access for certain vehicles on 56th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, according to the police. Fifth Avenue will remain open to southbound traffic, with some restrictions at certain points during the president’s stay. Along Fifth and Madison Avenues, the police will perform random inspections at vehicle checkpoints.The Fire Department has also made special arrangements, including a team at Trump Tower to respond to alarms, fire companies dedicated to respond to any calls to the building and specialty units at the heliport Mr. Trump will use to arrive and depart.“People can expect some delays in the area as well as along any motorcade routes during the period of his visit,” said Stephen P. Davis, the Police Department’s chief spokesman.“This is normally the case when a president visits New York City.”Although Mr. Trump visited the city for the first time as president on May 4, that trip was cut to just a few hours, during which he met with the prime minister of Australia aboard the Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum. This time, he is scheduled to arrive from Bedminster on Sunday, and then return briefly to Washington on Monday, according to travel plans shared by a government official who requested anonymity because they were not at liberty to disclose the president’s schedule. He will return to New York later that day, and then leave for New Jersey again on Wednesday. The White House would not elaborate on the nature of the president’s meetings in New York or Washington.Mr. Trump was last in his Manhattan home as the president-elect. At the time, the streets around Trump Tower, which is flanked by luxury shops on Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th Streets, were at different points closed to traffic completely, narrowed or blocked by security checkpoints. Those restrictions have loosened in the months since, as the city has adjusted to the rhythms of its newest-minted politician — and businesses on choked-off streets complained about losing customers. Today, police officers with dogs patrol the area around the building, but the main impediments to traffic are tourists stopping outside it for sidewalk selfies.On Friday, the scene at Trump Tower was placid, inside and out. Dee and Sally Watson, retired teachers who were visiting from Savannah, Ga., sat on a bench in the lobby across from the golden elevators, celebrating their 42nd wedding anniversary.Ms. Watson, who voted for Mr. Trump, said she understood his desire to come home to his resplendent apartment and the city where he was born. “I know it’s going to be a traffic jam no matter what,” she said, “but I definitely would think that even though New York voted against him, it is his home.”Her husband, who said he did not recall for whom he had voted, only that it “wasn’t Trump,” disagreed. “He doesn’t need to be spending time away from the White House,” Mr. Watson said. “He already does — playing golf.”