"I've always wanted to play in the big leagues, and the freedom that exists in this country is very good too," Arocha said in an interview Thursday. "To leave Cuba was both a personal decision for my well being and a political decision."From Fidel Castro's point of view, Arocha's defection could not have come at a worse time. Cuba is in the midst of an economic and political crisis that has no parallel in 32 years of Communist rule, and the Pan-American Games, which begin on Friday, are intended both to showcase the achievements of "socialist sport" and provide Cubans with a welcome diversion from the country's troubles.If only because his wife and 8-year-old daughter remain in Cuba, Arocha has avoided attempts by the Cuban exile community here to enlist his support in the anti-Castro cause, saying "I know nothing about politics."But he is fully aware that the decision to turn his back on the state sports apparatus that discovered and trained him constitutes a slap in the face to Castro at a very delicate moment. No Reprisals"If I were there, or if I went back, I know there would be reprisals," he said. "But there have been no reprisals against my family, and even if we weren't on the eve of the Pan American Games, I do not think there would be. It's not their fault. They haven't done anything, and they didn't know anything."Of his wife and child Arocha said, "I don't have the means right now to get them out, but I know this is something I have to do, because I miss them greatly."It is not the first time he has been in such a position: his father fled Cuba during the Mariel boatlift in 1980, and Arocha did not see him again until they met at the Miami airport this month.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyAs the No. 3 starter on a squad considered to be one of the best in the world, Arocha enjoyed both celebrity and a certain degree of privilege in Cuba.When the team competed abroad, he said, "We were paid in dollars, which gave us the right when we got back home to shop in the special hard-currency store." As a result he and his teammates could buy goods not available to ordinary Cubans."Even so, the life of a baseball player in Cuba is rather difficult," Arocha added. "In spite of their prestige, players have to put up with bad conditions and most of the same privations as the general population." Professional ScaleNominally a physical education teacher, Arocha earned 211 pesos a month, the equivalent of about $300 at official rates of exchange but only $42 on the black market."Players earn not according to their performance but to their profession," he said. "If you're an engineer, you make what any other engineer makes, and if you're a garbageman, you make what garbagemen make. You don't get a cent more for being a ballplayer."When asked if championship performances were rewarded with cash bonuses, improved housing or other prizes, as is the case in China and some other Communist countries, his eyes widened in surprise and he said: "Bonuses? What bonuses?"Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.On the road, he said, the national team stayed in dormitories attached to the stadiums where the team played."They were just like army barracks, with a lot of guys trying to use what few facilities there were," he said.Players are recruited and developed, Arocha said, through an elaborate scouting system that spots the most promising players at the age of seven or eight and then tracks them through their childhood years. American HighlightsAdvertisement Continue reading the main storyThe best end up at the Commander Manuel Fajardo School, where they train during the day and attend classes at night. They then move on to major league competition, which consists of 118 games divided between two major tournaments each year.A few American players, like Nolan Ryan, Roger Clemens, Don Mattingly, and Dwight Gooden are known to the most devoted Cuban fans, Arocha said. But the best-known big league star is Jose Canseco, who comes from Arocha's hometown of Regla, just outside Havana. Canseco invited Arocha to Oakland last weekend."We went out to dinner together and were together at the stadium for the series against the Yankees," Arocha said. "He introduced me to Tony La Russa, who said he would send a scout to Miami to look at me."By seeing a big league game, Arocha did something the average Cuban fan can only dream about."On television, there are no games and no news of the big leagues, but some people listen to games on the radio from stations over here," he said. "The Government doesn't want to permit it, but it knows that nothing can be done to prevent it, so it doesn't interfere."There is also an underground market for videotapes of American games. Arocha said he first became aware of Canseco through one such tape smuggled into the country. 'Excellent Control'Manuel Hurtado, who was Arocha's pitching coach in Cuba until defecting himself two years ago, said that scouts from seven teams, including the Mets and the Yankees, have already watched Arocha work out."He's always had excellent control and good speed," Hurtado said. "But now he has more experience, which has made him a smarter pitcher, and he's also developed a sinker to go with the fastball, curve, slider and knuckleball he already had. I think he's ready for the big leagues."Roland Johnson, scouting director for the Mets, isn't so sure. "We're not real interested," he said. "He could probably play in the minor leagues, but we don't think he is a major league prospect.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyArocha has been a member of Cuba's national team for a decade, representing his country in tournaments "on every continent except Africa," as he put it.One of his strongest performances at the Intercontinental Cup in Havana in 1987, when he compiled a 3-0 record and a 1.64 e.r.a., striking out 24 batters in 22 innings. Discrepany in AgeDespite those numbers there are a couple of concerns for major league teams. One is his age. Arocha says he's 25, but the International Baseball Association lists his date of birth as Feb. 24, 1964, making him 27.In any case, league rules would prohibit teams from signing Arocha while he is still a Cuban national. To his frustration, he will be eligible only when he gains his American residency, a process that will take at least a year."I don't understand it," he said. "I have come here seeking liberty, and they are closing the door on me. I can only hope this case can resolve itself soon. I'm convinced that if I have to sit around waiting for an entire year, after a year I won't be the same."