Mrs. Machlin lived in Patigliano until the Nazis came in 1943 when she was a teen-ager. She escaped to the hills, where she lived with anti-Fascist partisans. She once spent the night with a poor farmer's family where a spectacular meal was served to the fugitives out of one egg, flour and a Savoy cabbage. The egg and flour made a pasta, served with garlic, parsley and oil; the cabbage was sauteed.The book is filled with stories of life and food in Patigliano and attractively illustrated with drawings and old photographs. It includes a section on Jewish holidays and religious customs and about 200 recipes. Although the recipes are kosher they are adapted for modern American kitchens and will appeal to nonkosher cooks as well.They include homemade beef sausages, dried beef and pickled beef tongue. The soup chapter is excellent and so are the recipes for polenta and pasta and beans. Mrs. Machlin also gives several recipes for such esoteric delicacies as zucchini flowers, a Tuscan cholent (with Swiss chard and chicken balls) and matza Tuscan bread made with matzohs. She even gives a recipe for a nondairy white sauce using bone marrow instead of butter. Sometimes she uses more salt than necessary and occasionally recipes are marred by such dubious ingredients as onion salt, dehydrated minced onion or garlic powder.Mrs. Machlin includes recipes for a luscious cuscussu - couscous - served with stuffed artichokes, stuffed cabbage and stuffed celery, and several delicious ways of preparing cardoons, artichokes and pasta. There are also unusual dishes such as baccala mantecato, creamed salt cod; maritucci, a yeast bread flavored with anise, and sfratti, a honey and nut dessert the name of which derives from the Italian sfratto, meaning eviction -a process all too familiar to Jews who were no longer wanted in the community. ''Much of Jewish food lore is based on reproducing, in a sweet form, some symbolic item of unhappy events of the past,'' writes Mrs. Machlin.In Italy, the following recipe is made with triglie, a medium-size red fish resembling red snapper. Here small red snapper are substituted. Triglie All'Ebraica (Red Snapper Jewish Style) 4 pounds small red snappers Salt to taste 1/2 cup olive oil 1 teaspoon sugar 1/4 cup red wine vinegar 1 cup dark, seedless raisins 1/2 cup pine nuts.1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 2. Wash fish thoroughly and pat dry with paper towels. Lightly sprinkle with salt. Lightly oil the baking dish and arrange the fish in a single layer.3. Dissolve the sugar in the vinegar and pour over the fish. Pour in the remaining oil and sprinkle with pine nuts. 4. Cover with a piece of aluminum foil and bake for approximately 20 minutes. Remove foil and bake another 30 minutes or until all liquid has evaporated and the snapper is golden.Yield: 6 servings.