Weinstein’s critique of PrEP is a fringe view. According to Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, support for PrEP among researchers and regulators is all but universal. “It’s having an extraordinarily positive impact,” he says. Robert Grant, a professor of medicine at U.C.S.F. and a leading PrEP researcher, credits the treatment with “a plummeting decline” in H.I.V. transmission rates among white gay men in San Francisco.Nevertheless, Weinstein is quoted regularly in articles about the treatment, and his noisy skepticism has reverberated across the internet. Some argue that Weinstein’s grandstanding during public hearings delayed PrEP’s approval by the C.D.C., and that his sowing of doubt about the medication is continuing to suppress its use, especially in black and Latino communities. “What I find in my practice,” Grant says, “is that A.H.F.’s propaganda does not impress or influence privileged groups of gay men. They can see right through it. But when I talk to some people of color who are clients in my clinics, I find they’ve heard the A.H.F. message, and it gives them pause, it makes them concerned, it appeals to their sense that this isn’t for them.” Despite the C.D.C.’s efforts, very few people, even now, are on PrEP; according to recent estimates, only about 100,000 people take it.Weinstein’s concerns about PrEP are in line with his other heterodox positions, which often cut against the sexual-liberationist doctrine embraced by other activists. Many issues that have been controversial in the gay community, he claims, like laws that make it illegal to intentionally infect a sexual partner with H.I.V., are no-brainers for ordinary voters. “Some people are so extreme,” he told me. “There’s a group here in California that wants to reduce intentionally infecting somebody from a felony to a misdemeanor. There’s articles being written basically saying we should be proud to bareback” — slang for condomless sex. “In the hothouse environment of the gay community, that point of view is very popular, but it isn’t in the community at large, and it isn’t in the medical community either.”What motivates Weinstein to adopt such lonely views? Weinstein’s fiercest critics have often searched for a financial motive, some even going so far as to suggest that he aims to profit from the spread of H.I.V. Those who know him personally dismiss this explanation. Phill Wilson, president of the Black AIDS Institute, first met Weinstein in 1980 when Wilson was dating Chris Brownlie. In fact, the first iteration of A.H.F. was founded in Wilson’s living room. “This is the mistake that people make when they think about Michael,” Wilson told me. “Whether what he does is good or bad, he does what he believes is in the best interests of people living with H.I.V. or at risk of infection.” Weinstein was “primarily driven by mission,” Wilson said. Even Peter Staley concedes that point. “I don’t think it’s about the money for him,” he told me, unsurprised to learn that in Weinstein’s most recent annual report, he disclosed a comparatively humble salary of $400,000, low for directors of similarly sized nonprofits. “The core of the business at A.H.F. is not something that has been scandalous,” Staley says. “It is an empire worth building. A.H.F.’s problem is that once it created the largest AIDS empire on the planet, it started using that power for nefarious purposes: Michael Weinstein’s twisted political views.”On paper, 2016 was Weinstein’s best year ever. He opened six new pharmacies and one clinic in the United States and started new programs in Indonesia, Bolivia and Zimbabwe. But on the advocacy side, he suffered significant setbacks. In November, his drug-pricing initiative failed. So did his condoms-in-porn initiative, despite the fact that he had managed to pass a similar law in Los Angeles County in 2012. Most recently, on March 7, voters in the city of Los Angeles resoundingly rejected, by a 2-to-1 margin, his quixotic anti-density measure. The public, it seems, is not on board with Weinstein’s agenda.Even so, when I visited Weinstein at his office in February, he showed no sign of disappointment. Discussing recent losses, he wasn’t merely philosophical; he was downright giddy. “I had never been involved with a campaign,” he said, referring to the drug-pricing initiative, “where people were so enthusiastic about something that didn’t win.” (He would later use the same line with reporters when his anti-density ordinance went down in flames.) As we chatted, he sipped from a radioactive-looking bottle of apple-melon Isopure; he said he liked his chances for this November, when he would try again with a new drug-pricing initiative, this time in Ohio. The problem in California, he said, was that the drug companies had flooded the airwaves — “total aerial bombardment, 3,500 gross rating points a week” — but he doubted that kind of “razzmatazz” would work in flyover country. “Midwesterners are kind of square-shouldered, common-sense people. I’d think there’d be a backlash if they dumped $80 million into Ohio.”If that referendum were to pass, Weinstein figured, then Big Pharma’s citadel — the American market — would start to crack. Ohio would be copied by other states, and the V.A.’s price for drugs would become the universal price, as even private insurers would demand to pay the new public rate. Billions would be shaved off pharma’s bottom line, meaning the industry would no longer have the muscle to bully Congress into propping up its international patent regime. Drug prices would plummet across the world, AIDS medications would flow freely and the industry’s lobbying operation would shrink so much that it could be drowned in a bathtub. This sequence of events seemed far-fetched, but Weinstein was nevertheless optimistic about the coming year, win or lose. His equanimity in the face of failure reminded me of something he once said to me about Prop. 60, the condoms-in-porn bill. It lost at the ballot box by an eight-point margin, but Weinstein found a reason to declare victory. “We’ve had more than 10,000 stories on condoms in porn,” he boasted. “Forget about porn: That’s a lot of free advertising for condoms.”Weinstein often consoles himself in moments of defeat by reaffirming his commitment to the long game. This is part of what makes him so frustrating to his critics: It is difficult, and sometimes impossible, to distinguish his cynical ploys from his ideological commitments. In his person, the will to power and the will to change the world seem to fuse. It wasn’t simply that he cared more about fighting than about winning. Eventually, he believes, people will come around to his view. And if they don’t, that’s fine, too: A.H.F. will continue to thrive, even in a fallen world.