“We’re going to pay for some of it,” Mr. Prendergast said, referring to long-term investments in infrastructure. Nonetheless, he added, the agency was “asking for 100 percent.”Replacing the tunnel interior, ceilings, walls, roadway, lighting, and conduit of the Hugh L. Carey Tunnel, formerly known as the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel, will cost $400 million, the authority said. For similar work on the Queens-Midtown Tunnel, the estimated cost was $350 million.Mr. Prendergast noted that the figures were “order of magnitude” estimates that were subject to change significantly. But he also hinted at the delicate art of securing disaster reimbursement.“When you’re dealing with third parties who may reimburse you, you never want to start low and then work high,” he said, adding that “you don’t want to pad,” either.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.He said that if the authority could complete the required work for less than the cost of the initial estimates, “we’re not going to bill anybody for more.”Even some of the agency’s megaprojects, which avoided significant physical damage, were affected by the storm. The authority estimated storm-related costs of more than $20 million for its East Side Access project, which will connect the Long Island Rail Road in Queens to Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan.A spokesman said this was largely the result of delays to the projects, incurred when contractors were not able to get their workers on site or facilitate deliveries.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo also said Monday that it would cost the state $9 billion to prepare for future storms; a portion of that money is expected to go to the authority.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyNicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research who studies transportation economics, said the authority might be hindered ultimately by what she called a state approach of “getting a huge, huge number out there and pretty much hectoring Congress into giving it all to New York right now, or else.”Ms. Gelinas said she was particularly concerned that the “extra political pressure that comes with supposedly free money” could cause the agency to give the wrong projects priority.“See the Fulton Street Transit Center after 9/11,” she said.The $1.4 billion Fulton Center project, set for completion in 2014, incurred $800,000 in storm costs associated with construction delays, the authority said.