Mr. Powell’s office released a statement on Thursday night saying he had no recollection of the dinner conversation. He did write Mrs. Clinton an email memo, which may exist in the F.B.I. files, describing his use of his personal email account for unclassified messages “and how it vastly improved communications within the State Department,” the statement said.In his memoir, “It Worked for Me,” Mr. Powell writes about his personal email, and he has taken pride in having tried to advance the antiquated technology practices at the State Department. But his use of personal email and Mrs. Clinton’s are not entirely parallel. Mr. Powell did not have a server at his house or rely on outside contractors, as Mrs. Clinton did at her home in Chappaqua, N.Y.A State Department inspector general report released in May said that Mr. Powell and other senior officials had used personal email accounts for official business, but that by the time Mrs. Clinton took office, the rules were clear that using a private server in such a manner was neither allowed nor encouraged because of “significant security risks.”In Mrs. Clinton’s case, the practice has created particular controversy because of her family’s foundation and its donors who had varying political and business interests while Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state. On Thursday, the Clinton Foundation confirmed that it would no longer accept foreign or corporate funds should Mrs. Clinton win in November.Although he did not recommend criminal charges, Mr. Comey said in July that Mrs. Clinton’s exclusive reliance on a private email address and server had been “extremely careless.”The State Department has asked to review the notes from Mrs. Clinton’s session with the F.B.I. before they are released, in case they include sensitive information. Clinton aides have expressed concerns that in the meantime congressional Republicans will try to leak parts of the materials to hurt Mrs. Clinton’s campaign.“We believe that if these materials are going to be shared outside the Justice Department,” said Brian Fallon, a spokesman for the campaign, “they should be released widely so that the public can see them for themselves.”