In his previous jobs at the F.B.I., Mr. McCabe was deeply involved in the investigation of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the arrest and interrogation of Ahmed Abu Khattala, a suspect in the 2012 attacks on the American compounds in Benghazi, Libya. As deputy director, he has been steeped in the Russia investigation that has so frustrated Mr. Trump and the White House.A graduate of Duke and Washington University School of Law in St. Louis, Mr. McCabe joined the F.B.I. in 1996, and he worked as an organized crime investigator in New York, where he was also a member of a SWAT team.“Anybody who is a detractor of McCabe’s career probably has a few holes in their professional portfolio,” said James A. Gagliano, who supervised him on that team. “There are a handful of guys I can attribute this to: His character is unimpeachable.”Before the president fired Mr. Comey, the F.B.I. director was under investigation by the Justice Department’s inspector general for the decisions he made regarding the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. The inspector general was also looking at whether Mr. McCabe should have recused himself from any involvement in that investigation.In 2015, Mr. McCabe’s wife, Jill McCabe, ran for a State Senate seat in Virginia as a Democrat and accepted nearly $500,000 in contributions from the political organization of Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a longtime friend of the Clintons. Though Mr. McCabe did not become deputy director until February 2016, months after his wife was defeated, critics within and outside the agency said he should have recused himself.Mr. McCabe has said he told his superiors about his wife’s candidacy and sought ethics advice from F.B.I. officials. The F.B.I. has said Mr. McCabe played no role in his wife’s campaign.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump watched Mr. McCabe’s testimony, but one thing is certain: The president cannot fire him for it.Mr. McCabe is a career civil servant, entitled to job protections. Still, there is no guarantee that a new director, once confirmed, will keep Mr. McCabe as deputy. Mr. McCabe could also be transferred or sidelined, leaving his current role at the F.B.I. very much in doubt.