PhotoDonald J. Trump repeatedly side-stepped questions on Sunday about how he would pay for his new plan to deport undocumented immigrants, and he also faced criticism from several rivals for the Republican presidential nomination about his call to end so-called birthright citizenship for children of those immigrants.Mr. Trump, the billionaire businessman whose blunt talk and outsider appeal has helped him build a lead in Republican polls, refused to provide specifics about his immigration plans during phone interviews on two Sunday news programs, ABC’s “This Week” and CBS’s “Face the Nation.” He disputed estimates that he would need hundreds of billions of dollars to deport the roughly 11 million people who are living in the United States illegally, but he declined to cite his own figures or explain where the money would come from. He promised instead that good “management,” as he put it on ABC, would fix the nation’s immigration system.“My specifics are very simple,” Mr. Trump said. “I’m going to get great people that know what they’re doing, not a bunch of political hacks that have no idea what they’re doing, appointed by President Obama, that doesn’t have a clue. I mean, that man doesn’t have a clue. People are walking across the border right now, right in front of these great people that we have. We have wonderful border patrol people. They can do their job, but they’re not allowed to do the job.”Mr. Trump also said he would “expedite” the return of “good people” deported from the United States but then seek to come back – though he acknowledged that this could be seen as rewarding people who entered the United States illegally in the first place.“Well, you could say that,” Mr. Trump said on “Face the Nation” in response to a question from the host, John Dickerson. “But we have lot of good people that have been here. They have done a good job. It’s a tough situation, but they have lived here sometimes for 10, 15, 20 years.”Mr. Trump, who has been lambasted by some of his rivals for offering simplistic ideas and being loose with his words, also suggested that there were far more illegal immigrants in the nation than widely assumed.“I’ve been hearing 11 million for five years, then the other day I heard 30. Nobody has any idea,” Mr. Trump said on “This Week.”The host, George Stephanopoulos, pressed him multiple times to be more specific, asking at one point if Mr. Trump expected neighbors to start turning in neighbors to immigration authorities.“I don’t know what’s going to happen,” Mr. Trump replied, before pivoting to attack other candidates like Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, whom he accused of heeding the advice of pollsters by turning against birthright citizenship to match Mr. Trump’s position.Mr. Walker, who has fallen behind Mr. Trump in some recent polls, and who appeared on “This Week” after him, was vague at first about his position on birthright citizenship. He twice refused to say if he supported the Constitution’s 14th Amendment, which grants citizenship to anyone born in the United States. When asked if he would try to repeal or alter it, however, he said, “No.”“My point is any discussion that goes beyond securing the border and enforcing the laws are things that should be a red flag to voters out there, who for years have heard lip service from politicians and are understandably angry because those politicians haven’t been committed to following through on those promises,” Mr. Walker said.Other Republican candidates also said they would not try to change the 14th Amendment. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey said ending birthright citizenship was “an applause line” for Mr. Trump.“It’s in the Constitution, and I don’t think that we should be looking to change it,” Mr. Christie said on “Face the Nation.” “Now, what I said was, if we wanted to have comprehensive immigration reform, I would be willing to listen to anything. But the truth of the matter is that that is not something we should be being focused on.”Carly Fiorina, appearing on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” also said she would leave the Constitution alone – and suggested that Mr. Trump was playing politics with the citizenship issue rather than tackling immigration in pragmatic, specific ways.“Donald Trump may not be a politician, but he’s sure acting like a politician in this regard,” she said.On another issue, taxes paid by hedge fund managers, Mr. Trump took another tough stand but did not delve into details.“A lot of them, it’s like they’re paper pushers – they make a fortune, they pay no tax, it’s ridiculous, OK?” Mr. Trump said on CBS. “The hedge fund guys are getting away with murder. They’re making a tremendous amount of money. They have to pay taxes. I want to lower the rates for the middle class. The middle class is the one, they’re getting absolutely destroyed.”The anti-politician ethos of Mr. Trump’s candidacy has proved so popular so far, however, that Mr. Walker, for one, tried to tap into it on Sunday by criticizing Republican leaders in Congress for not replacing the Affordable Care Act.“Heck, I’m angry at Washington, I’m angry at my own – my own party leadership, who told us they were going to repeal Obamacare and we still don’t see a bill on the desk of the president,” said Mr. Walker, who laid out his own health care proposals last week.The benefits of being an outsider also accrued to another Republican candidate, Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, whose strong poll numbers prompted this question on CNN’s “State of the Union”: Would he serve as Mr. Trump’s vice presidential candidate, or perhaps choose Mr. Trump as his running mate?“All things are possible, but it is much too early to begin such conversations,” Mr. Carson said.The Sunday shows also tried to divine meaning from Vice President Joseph Biden’s private meeting on Saturday with Senator Elizabeth Warren as he considers whether to enter the race for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination. Speculation centered on the possibility of a Biden-Warren ticket, although one supporter of a Biden candidate, Josh Alcorn, appearing on “Fox News Sunday,” emphasized that Mr. Biden was still simply considering the race.Another Democratic candidate, former Gov. Martin O’Malley of Maryland, said he would welcome Mr. Biden as a presidential candidate.“It would be nice to have at least one more lifelong Democrat in the race,” Mr. O’Malley said on ABC. Asked if he was taking a shot at Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a popular independent who is seeking the Democratic nomination, Mr. O’Malley said, “No, it’s a compliment to Vice President Biden for also being a lifelong Democrat.” Then he broke into a grin.