The 2003 Medicare law prohibits such negotiations. The drug benefit is delivered exclusively by private insurers, subsidized by the government. These companies have negotiated substantial discounts with drug manufacturers.Experts, including the Congressional Budget Office and Medicare actuaries, say they doubt that the bill would save money for older Americans or the government, because Medicare could not restrict the number or types of drugs covered.Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, described the bill as “a solution in search of a problem.” The cost of the drug benefit is lower than expected, he said, and the number of drug plans available to beneficiaries - - more than 40 in every state - - is higher than expected, he said.Each party used somewhat contradictory arguments. Republicans said the bill would not save any money because the government could not restrict access to drugs, but then they said the legislation would limit the drugs available to doctors and patients.“A government bureaucrat will be empowered to determine what kinds of drugs our seniors have access to,” said the House Republican whip, Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri. “If the government could not reach a deal with a drug company, seniors would not have access to those drugs.”For their part, Democrats said that Medicare was overpaying for drugs and could get much lower prices if it negotiated with drug companies as the Department of Veterans Affairs does. But Democrats said they did not want to give Medicare two of the most powerful tools used by the veterans agency: the ability to establish a “federal ceiling price” and a uniform list of covered drugs, known as a national formulary.While sketchy about details of their proposal, Democrats were clear about their purpose: to help beneficiaries and to reduce the profits made by drug companies in the Medicare market.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyRepresentative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the chief sponsor of the bill, said, “Those who insist that the sky is falling if drug companies negotiate lower prescription prices are arguing that those companies should continue to skin a fat hog at the expense of taxpayers and beneficiaries.”Another Democrat, Representative Lois Capps of California, said: “We can vote in favor of large drug companies that have raked in record profits under the Medicare drug plan. Or we can vote in favor of our senior constituents. Common sense tells me that the big drug and insurance companies would not be so adamantly opposed to this bill if they did not fear that it could result in actual price reductions.”Chances that some version of the legislation will emerge from Congress increased on Thursday when a pivotal figure, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said Congress should repeal the prohibition on negotiations.The chairman, Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, said he did not favor price controls, but did believe that Medicare should be able to negotiate prices in “discrete areas where seniors need our help the most.”But the White House, in a written statement on the House bill, argued that, “Government interference impedes competition, limits access to lifesaving drugs, reduces convenience for beneficiaries and ultimately increases costs to taxpayers, beneficiaries and all American citizens alike.”Mr. Baucus said he was seeking a middle ground between Republicans, who strongly support the existing ban on federal price negotiations, and House Democratic leaders.“The total prohibition on negotiation should be eliminated,” Mr. Baucus said after listening to two and a half hours of testimony from experts at a Finance Committee hearing. Mr. Baucus is acutely sensitive to public concern about drug prices because he is up for re-election in 2008.In approving the Medicare measure, House Democrats completed an ambitious week of legislating. Since Tuesday, the newly empowered Democrats have also approved measures that would enact recommendations from the bipartisan Sept. 11 commission, raise the minimum wage and lift restrictions on federal financing of embryonic stem cell research.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe debate over Medicare drug prices epitomizes the profound differences between the parties over the proper role of government in the nation’s health care system. Democrats would prefer that government play a stronger role in guaranteeing access to care at lower prices. Many Republicans, on the other hand, say the market would work better if government got out of the way.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the Democratic proposals were ”a stalking horse for price controls.” In seeking a larger federal role, he said, they remind him of the Clinton administration’s ill-fated plan for universal insurance coverage.“We have enough votes to sustain a veto,” Mr. Grassley said.Mr. Baucus and other Senate Democrats said the government should negotiate drug prices in a few, carefully selected areas where competition had not driven down prices.Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said Mr. Baucus’s position was highly significant. “It paves the way for the possibility” of giving the government the authority to negotiate, she said.On Wednesday, Ms. Snowe and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a bill that would repeal the ban on drug price negotiations. The bill would require Medicare to help negotiate contracts for a drug if the federal government had invested a substantial amount of money in its development.It would also require Medicare to negotiate contracts when a brand-name drug was available from only one manufacturer and no substitute or “therapeutic equivalent” was available.Mr. Baucus said, “For certain unique drugs, it seems that the prices are way too high.”But Richard G. Frank, a professor of health economics at Harvard, said that some of these drugs “really make a difference in people’s lives.” The drugs may be expensive, Dr. Frank said, but imposing cost controls may pose “particular risks to precisely the research and development that should be most encouraged.”The Congressional Research Service said that if the government negotiated lower drug prices for Medicare, pharmaceutical companies might respond by increasing prices for other buyers.Advertisement Continue reading the main story“While drug prices paid by Medicare beneficiaries may fall, overall drug prices may increase for other consumers, specifically for the under-65 population,” the research agency said.The White House and drug manufacturers say Medicare is such a large buyer of prescription drugs that it could, in many cases, dictate prices.Ms. Snowe and Mr. Wyden rejected that argument. Their bill says the secretary cannot set prices or establish a uniform list of covered drugs.