The immigration decision, Zadvydas v. Davis, No. 99-7791, will have an immediate impact on at least several thousand people. Many, like one of the two immigrants whose cases the justices reviewed, are natives of Cambodia, which has no repatriation agreement with the United States.A Cambodian man, Kim Ho Ma, who was admitted to the United States as a refugee when he was a child and was later convicted in a Washington State court of a gang-related killing, was one of hundreds of people within the jurisdiction of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to challenge their prolonged detention.That court, which sits in San Francisco and covers nine Western states, ruled in Mr. Ma's case in April 2000 that the Immigration and Naturalization Service lacked statutory authority to detain a deportable alien for more than a reasonable time beyond the 90 days required by the law. Mr. Ma, who had already served a state prison sentence for his crime, was ordered released from immigration detention after two years in custody.The Supreme Court combined the government's appeal in his case with an appeal brought by Kestutis Zadvydas, who had lost a similar challenge before a different court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans. Mr. Zadvydas was born in 1948 to Lithuanian parents in a displaced persons camp in Germany. The family was admitted to the United States when he was a child. He compiled a long criminal record, served prison time and was eventually taken into immigration custody and ordered deported to Germany in 1994.But Germany refused to accept him, because he is not a German citizen. Lithuania also disclaimed any responsibility. He remained in custody for three years until a federal district judge in New Orleans granted his petition for a writ of habeas corpus in 1997 and ordered him released. The Fifth Circuit overturned that decision and, declaring that immigration matters were ''largely immune from judicial control,'' found no constitutional problem with his continued detention. The appeals court allowed Mr. Zadvydas to remain free while he appealed his case.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The decision today was a forceful repudiation by the Supreme Court of the kind of deference to immigration policy that the Fifth Circuit invoked and that the government urged on the justices. Congressional and executive branch power over immigration ''is subject to important constitutional limitations,'' Justice Breyer said. In what amounted to a civics lesson, he also observed that ''the Due Process Clause applies to all 'persons' within the United States, including aliens, whether their presence here is lawful, unlawful, temporary or permanent.''The statute before the court requires a 90-day period of confinement for immigrants subject to a ''final removal order,'' after which the government ''may'' continue the detention. These provisions were adopted as part of the same 1996 immigration law that the court reviewed in its decision on Monday that also rejected the government's legal interpretation and gave immigrants a right to judicial hearings to challenge deportation policies.Another provision of the same 1996 law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act, for the first time made detention mandatory for various categories of immigrants who are involved in deportation proceedings but who have not yet received a final order.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe case today did not address that provision, but Judy Rabinovitz, a senior staff counsel of the American Civil Liberties Union's immigrants' rights project, said the decision would offer significant help to legal challenges, currently under way, over the manner in which the mandatory detention policy is being carried out. The ruling ''shows that the court is applying constitutional scrutiny to immigration policy and that immigrants are protected by the Constitution,'' Ms. Rabinovitz said.Some 20,000 immigrants are now in I.N.S. detention. Under current policy and the court's interpretation today, those who are released from detention are not necessarily free of all restraint; they may be placed under various restrictions in the community, similar to probation. In addition, Justice Breyer said cases of terrorism or other special circumstances might require a form of preventive detention that is not justified in the ordinary case.The majority opinion was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, John Paul Stevens, David H. Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Chief Justice Rehnquist joined Justice Kennedy's dissenting opinion, as did Justices Clarence Thomas and Antonin Scalia. Justice Scalia also wrote in dissent to say that the case came down to ''a claimed right of release into this country by an individual who concededly has no legal right to be here.''''There is no such constitutional right,'' he said.