Though it was not intended as such, ''L'Amour de Loin'' provides a jolt of sanity amid the political conflicts that of late have been rattling the world, Austria in particular, over issues of nationality, immigration, the sanctity of borders and the cultural gulf between the West and the East. Mr. Maalouf treats these themes in his effortlessly poetic text, one of the strongest librettos in some time.Yet the story is touchingly simple, involving only three solo characters. The self-absorbed Jaufre is convinced that the woman of his fantasies is distant and unobtainable. Perhaps not, says the pilgrim, who travels often between the western kingdom of Aquitaine and the eastern citadel of Tripoli. He tells the prince about the Countess Clemence, who lives in a far-off Arab land, with its ''oceans of sand'' and ''rivers of ash,'' which, of course, just makes her seem more wondrous to the prince.In fact, Clemence is from Toulouse, which at the time ruled Tripoli. She spent five happy childhood years in France and longs to return there. Yet, hearing of the far-off prince's devotion, she too gets hooked by thoughts of a love that is pure because it is unknowable.Idealized love is a well-worn theme, but Mr. Maalouf has found a fresh way to revisit it. In a brilliant stroke, it is Jaufre's vanity as a troubadour that finally compels him to cross the sea and face his ideal woman. The pilgrim has sung the prince's love songs to the countess, but only as best as he could remember them. The prince is furious. The songs were never intended for Clemence's ears. But if she is to hear them, then he wants her to hear them properly. In the end, the long voyage and Jaufre's neurotic passion undo him. He arrives mortally ill and dies in Clemence's arms.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Mr. Maalouf's words invite music, and Ms. Saariaho has provided a lushly beautiful score, structured in five continuous acts lasting two hours. Best known for her explorations of sound, Ms. Saariaho continues in that vein here with music that combines vivid orchestration, the subtle use of electronic instruments and imaginative, sometimes unearthly writing for chorus, which sings from the side of the stage. The vocal writing is by turns elegiac and conversational. Her harmonic language is tonally grounded, with frequent use of sustained low pedal tones, but not tonal. Bits of dissonance, piercing overtones and gently jarring electronic sounds spike the undulant harmonies, but so subtly that the overall aural impression is of beguiling consonance.As Mr. Sellars said perceptively during a news conference, Ms. Saariaho's music invites you ''to relax, to enter a beautiful safe atmosphere, to lower your resistance.'' Yet in doing so the music sometimes lacks urgency. Stretches of the score pass by, beautiful, yes, but lacking in profile, just orchestral backdrops for the singer's reflections.Every time the score startles us with rhythmic agitation, or shouts and handclaps from the chorus, the range of Ms. Saariaho's gift becomes clearer. Her evocations of the troubadour songs, with medieval modal harmony and fragments of elegiac tunes, are marvelous. But finally, you must accept a score for what it is, not for what it isn't, and this one does what it set out to do with great skill and authenticity.Mr. Sellars, a famously controversial director, is at his most inspired here. His set designer, George Tsypin, has created a magical medieval world in this coliseumlike theater. The lovers from afar live in tall, isolated towers of glass with colored spirals. Jaufre is conveyed up and down in a fantastical elevator; Clemence climbs a rotating spiral staircase. To represent the sea that separates them, the entire stage, speckled with light by the designer James F. Ingalls, has been filled with shallow water through which the pilgrim slogs, the prince rides a slow boat and, after her idealized lover dies, Clemence wallows.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe American baritone Dwayne Croft sings Jaufre with burnished sound, virile energy and dreamy lyricism. Ms. Upshaw brings sublime vocal beauty and poignant vulnerability to her portrayal. Sadly, a health problem forced a close colleague of theirs, Lorraine Hunt, who was to have sung the role of the male pilgrim, to withdraw. In her place is the excellent Czech mezzo-soprano Dagmar Peckova. Mr. Sellars elicits affecting portrayals from all three, who fearlessly inhabit their roles. Ms. Upshaw ended the performance sopping wet and emotionally exhausted.The remarkable Mr. Nagano, directing the SWR-Sinfonieorchester of Baden-Baden and Freiburg, with additional musicians from Ircam, the contemporary music center in Paris, and the Arnold Schoenberg Choir, led what seemed a confident, incisive and shapely first performance of a complex score.Mr. Sellars, who was moved to tears during a news conference in speaking about the work's creators, said that ''L'Amour de Loin'' was scheduled for productions elsewhere, details of which are to be announced. He will have to adapt his conception, of course. Not many opera houses can provide the resources he enjoys at the Salzburg Festival. There will be four more performances through Aug. 30.