The non-Jewish kosher market has been growing in earnest since the 1990s, when the koshering of the Oreo was hailed as a watershed event and ConAgra Foods bought the Hebrew National hot dog brand. Now, 40 percent of the food sold at grocery stores has a kosher imprint, according to the kosher and halal food initiative, a research project at Cornell University.PhotoRecently, the pace has picked up. Major retailers including Wal-Mart, Costco and Trader Joe’s have kosher programs. At FreshDirect, the New York City grocery delivery company, orders for kosher chicken were up 30 percent in 2009. The kosher Tootsie Roll was introduced last month.Because so many packaged foods carry a kosher seal, shoppers unwittingly buy kosher food every day. But people who buy products specifically because they are labeled kosher could be spending as much as $17 billion by 2013, according to Packaged Facts.At Mississippi State University, Prof. Yvonne Vizzier Thaxton added ritual halal and kosher slaughter to her poultry science syllabus after she realized it was a niche that should not be ignored by conventional poultry processors.She is not convinced that salting and other steps involved in koshering produce better chicken than conventional methods, but a few years ago she started to notice a marked increase in the number of people who do believe it. The industry, she said, needs to take a good look at the potential for growth.“We’ve been too narrow in our perspective,” she said.Some shoppers who were not raised in kosher families use the label as a stand-in for other signifiers. “I prefer to buy local and organic, but when I get to the market late and they have sold out of the chicken, I end up buying kosher because I feel it is the second-best thing,” said Myra Kohn, a food blogger in Seattle who goes by the digital pen name Seattle Bon Vivant.For some shoppers, kosher means purity of ingredients. Vegetarians know a parve label means absolutely no meat or dairy products. (Vegans, though, are out of luck. Parve food can contain eggs and honey.)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFamilies with food allergies like the increased availability of kosher products for a similar reason. Bryan Adams is an entertainment publicist from Teaneck, N.J., whose son had terrible skin problems when he was born. A holistic medical adviser suggested the family cut out a number of foods, including soy and gluten. The child’s skin cleared, and Mr. Adams discovered his own gluten intolerance.PhotoNow, the family stocks the kitchen with certain brands of kosher mayonnaise and margarine that aren’t made with ingredients that trigger outbreaks.Nosheen Nazakat, a Muslim from Pakistan, often buys kosher when she cannot find halal food. She is also a discerning cook who is happy to browse the aisles at Pomegranate, a 20,000-square-foot store in Midwood, Brooklyn, whose fans call it the kosher Whole Foods.The neighborhood is home to several large Orthodox synagogues and the largest mosque in the borough.Although Pomegranate sells dry-aged prime steaks for $36.99 a pound, pristine marrow bones and rows of whole chickens, Ms. Nazakat buys all her meat from the halal butcher a few blocks away. But the salads, the fresh hummus and the olive bar?“Very, very good,” she said.Increasingly, a certain brand of non-Jewish gastro-tourists are making their way to the store as well.“On Sundays, we call it visiting day,” said Mike Steigman, who is in charge of Pomegranate’s three kitchens — one each dedicated to meat, parve and dairy preparations. “A lot of Park Slope, no matter what their background is, comes that day.”Neil Glick, a real estate agent active in local Washington politics, was raised in a mixed Reform and Conservative household that didn’t keep kosher. But after reading books and watching films that depicted horrific examples of conventional slaughterhouses, he was essentially scared kosher — at least when it comes to meat.“One thing about kosher food — I do feel less guilt in eating it because I know the end was not as cruel,” he said.PhotoThat point is debatable. Certainly, humane treatment is built into Jewish dietary law. Animals must be handled with care, fed a specific diet and slaughtered with a swift cut to the carotid artery. (In addition, rabbis inspect carcasses for defects like broken bones or infection. Washings in salt and cold water help remove all traces of blood.)Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe cattle expert Temple Grandin has worked extensively with some large kosher processors to develop humane standards. But some experts in animal welfare warn consumers not to assume that kosher means humane. (Animals slaughtered in accordance with religious law are an exception written into the federal Humane Methods of Livestock Slaughter Act, which requires that mammals be stunned unconscious before killing.)“Like anything else, it depends on the management and the quality of the operation and the training of the personnel,” said Adele Douglass of Humane Farm Animal Care. The group certifies processors like Applegate Farms and Murray’s Chicken, which meet its strict standards of humane treatment and slaughter. It certifies one halal poultry producer who stuns chickens after throat slitting, but has had no kosher producers who have asked to complete the program.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.Ms. Douglass and others point to Agriprocessors, once the largest kosher meatpacking plant in the United States, as an example of what can go wrong. The company filed for bankruptcy in 2008 amid charges of labor abuse and inhumane treatment of animals.Science is mixed when it comes to the relative safety of kosher meat, said Carl Custer, a former federal Agriculture Department microbiologist.In 2007, researchers at the Agriculture Department infected chicken skin with salmonella. Then they applied kosher salt and rinsed the skin, measuring pathogen levels along the way. Salt alone didn’t reduce contamination, but the combination of salting and rinsing reduced salmonella levels by 80 percent.That same year, another study of 353 whole or cut raw chickens offered different results. Agriculture Department researchers compared conventional, kosher and organic chickens. The conventional chicken had the least amount of total contamination. The organic poultry had the most salmonella, the conventional poultry the most campylobacter and kosher the most listeria.PhotoAs far as taste, the jury remains out. Anyone who has ordered a kosher meal on a plane can tell you there is plenty of unappealing kosher food in the world. And an Oreo tastes like an Oreo, whether a rabbi supervised its creation or not.Still, cooks like Christopher Kimball, who founded Cook’s Illustrated magazine, swear by the juiciness of Empire Kosher birds. And a whole chicken from Kosher Valley, a new, antibiotic-free kosher brand from the Hain Celestial Group, a natural and organic food producer, made for a delicious dinner roasted with fresh fennel and lemon.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe Kosher Valley chickens are raised on vegetarian feed in Pennsylvania and processed in upstate New York. Priced as much as 40 percent less a pound than organic kosher chicken, they’ve been a good seller at Whole Foods, which began offering them late last year. “This new line brings it to a more affordable price point, so kosher has become an option for everyone,” said Jim Zola, a Whole Foods regional meat coordinator.Not every expert on the Jewish market buys the reasons behind the growth of kosher food. Elie Rosenfeld is the chief operating officer of the New York firm Joseph Jacobs Advertising, which helped introduce Rebecca Rubin, the first Jewish doll in the American Girl line.He doesn’t disagree that kosher food is growing more popular, especially among higher-end cooks and chefs. But he doesn’t think it is a mass movement and believes food companies continue to expand their kosher lines to serve the Jewish community, not to capture the nonkosher consumer.“It’s an unexpected side benefit to a certain extent, but the volume is there for people who keep kosher,” he said.Why quibble over why, said Yaakov Yitzchak Horowitz, the Manischewitz company rabbi and director of its kosher development operations.“I consider this trend an unusual grace of God,” he said.