PhotoApril 8 is Holocaust Remembrance Day (Yom Hashoah), which marks the anniversary of the Warsaw ghetto uprising on the Hebrew calendar.Students and teachers will find many ideas for learning about the Holocaust on our special resource page, which includes:This year, the 70th anniversary of the Warsaw ghetto uprising, we add one more idea: to use contemporary reporting in The New York Times itself as a lens for thinking about what the press was reporting at the time and why it was reporting it that way.Through this investigation, students can better understand the answers to some of the broader questions they so frequently ask during any study of the Holocaust: What did Americans know about the Holocaust while it was going on? And why didn’t the United States do more to end the Holocaust, or at least to rescue its victims? They can also learn about both the power and the limitations of journalism.Considering Times Coverage of the HolocaustPhotoDoing a search of Holocaust coverage in The Times is not an easy task. After all, the term “Holocaust” was not used by the press until later.As an alternative, start by having students read an article by Max Frankel, the executive editor of The Times from 1986 to 1994, published prominently in the The Times’s 150th anniversary edition on Nov. 14, 2001.In “150th Anniversary: 1851-2001; Turning Away From the Holocaust,” Mr. Frankel calls the Holocaust reporting by The Times and other media “the century’s bitterest journalistic failure.” Here is an excerpt:And then there was failure: none greater than the staggering, staining failure of The New York Times to depict Hitler’s methodical extermination of the Jews of Europe as a horror beyond all other horrors in World War II — a Nazi war within the war crying out for illumination. The annihilation of six million Jews would not for many years become distinctively known as the Holocaust. But its essence became knowable fast enough, from ominous Nazi threats and undisputed eyewitness reports collected by American correspondents, agents and informants. Indeed, a large number of those reports appeared in The Times. But they were mostly buried inside its gray and stolid pages, never featured, analyzed or rendered truly comprehensible. Yet what they printed made clear that the editors did not long mistrust the ghastly reports. They presented them as true within months of Hitler’s secret resolve in 1941 to proceed to the ”final solution” of his fantasized ”Jewish problem.” Why, then, were the terrifying tales almost hidden in the back pages? Like most — though not all — American media, and most of official Washington, The Times drowned its reports about the fate of Jews in the flood of wartime news. Its neglect was far from unique and its reach was not then fully national, but as the premier American source of wartime news, it surely influenced the judgment of other news purveyors.Students should read the entire article. Then, if time allows, they should read some of the original articles that Mr. Frankel discusses, like the one headlined “Extinction Feared by Jews in Poland” (PDF) on page 28 of the March 1, 1942, paper. After the class finishes its investigation, students should discuss the following questions:How did The Times cover the Holocaust as it was taking place and being learned about by journalists?A common inaccuracy about the World War II period is that Americans didn’t know about the Holocaust until the concentration camps were finally liberated at the end of the war in 1945. How does Mr. Frankel’s article, and a review of Times coverage from that period, shed light on this question? What Americans were most likely to know about the Holocaust taking place in Europe? What Americans were less likely to know about it? (You can read the first chapter of Peter Novick’s book, “The Holocaust in American Life,” to learn more about this topic.)How do you think Americans’ reaction to the Holocaust before the end of World War II might have been different if The New York Times and other highly regarded newspapers and magazines had featured news about the Holocaust in their major front-page headlines?In what ways do you think the American press in general, or The Times in particular, has changed since the 1930s and ’40s? What evidence can you give to back up your opinion?Mr. Frankel concludes his article with this statement:And to this day the failure of America’s media to fasten upon Hitler’s mad atrocities stirs the conscience of succeeding generations of reporters and editors. It has made them acutely alert to ethnic barbarities in far-off places like Uganda, Rwanda, Bosnia and Kosovo. It leaves them obviously resolved that in the face of genocide, journalism shall not have failed in vain. Do you agree with this conclusion? Do you think The Times and other media outlets are aggressively covering current human rights tragedies unfolding around the world? How do you think the decline of print newspapers and the nightly national news broadcasts, along with the rise of digital media and 24-hour news channels, might affect current and future coverage?Going Further | If students want to study the topic of Holocaust coverage in The Times in greater depth, they can read the following two pieces:An essay by Laurel Leff, the author of “Buried by The Times: The Holocaust and America’s Most Important Newspaper,” in which she excoriates The Times for its Holocaust coverage;The Times’s book review of “Buried by The Times,” written by Robert Leiter, in which he criticizes Ms. Leff’s book as a “high-minded crusade against one newspaper.”Then, students can use these two sources to contribute additional insights to the above discussion questions.