What’s a simple method for roasting a turkey? You don’t need to brine, stuff, truss or baste a turkey to get delicious results. Watch the video above, and then make the recipe.How much turkey should I buy? Buy one pound per person, or a pound and a half per person if you’d like to make sure you have leftovers. If you’re ordering your turkey from a butcher or farmer, you’ll need to do so a few weeks in advance.How long does it take to thaw a frozen turkey? Allow one day for every four pounds of turkey (i.e. a 12-pound turkey will need three days to defrost). Thaw your turkey in the fridge and make sure to put it in a bowl or on a platter because it may drip. It will defrost faster if you remove the neck and giblets from the cavity as soon as possible (you may need to defrost it for at least a day first before you can do so).Can you safely defrost a turkey at room temperature? A large turkey should not be defrosted at room temperature. Thorough cooking would kill microbes, but not necessarily all the toxins they may have produced. And the skin may start to go rancid.How long does raw turkey keep? According to the Agriculture Department, fresh turkey can be kept in the refrigerator for up to two days. A frozen turkey will last for up to a year if kept frozen continuously.Should I brine my turkey? Whether you brine your turkey is a matter of personal preference. Brining advocates say that brining guards against dryness and overcooking. Detractors argue that it is a messy and inconvenient way to ensure moist and evenly seasoned meat (you need to store the turkey in the liquid overnight and keep it cool); a dry rub, sometimes called a dry brine, is less messy and also produces moist meat. (Here’s a great recipe for dry-brined turkey.)Where can I safely store a turkey while it brines? Your best bet is to take everything out of the refrigerator and store the turkey in there. That way you can be sure the temperature will be low enough. You could also store the turkey in a cooler, but you have to worry about keeping the temperature below 40 degrees. If you do use a cooler, make sure it is well packed with ice or ice packs.Should I truss my turkey? If you do not stuff your turkey, you do not need to truss it. Allowing untrussed wings and legs to have hot air circulating around them helps them cook faster, so the white and dark meat will all be done at the same time. If you do stuff your bird, trussing helps keep the stuffing in its proper place and it makes for a neater presentation.Is it dangerous to cook the stuffing inside the turkey? The Agriculture Department and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend cooking stuffing separately from the turkey. The concern is that cold or frozen stuffing, sometimes sold already stuffed into packaged birds, won’t reach a high enough temperature to be eaten safely. To be safe, take its temperature; like the turkey, it must reach 165 degrees.Do I need a roasting rack to roast a turkey? A rack allows the heat of the oven to circulate around the turkey; also, if the turkey is resting on the bottom of the roasting pan, the skin there will be flabby and moist. You don’t need a specially designed rack for your roasting pan, but you need something to lift the bird above the bottom of the pan. Balls of aluminum foil work perfectly well; you can also use upside-down ramekins.Do I need to rinse off the turkey before I start cooking it? You don’t need to rinse your turkey. Any bacteria that’s on it will be cooked off in the oven.Should I baste the turkey? Not for the first hour. You want the heat of the oven to do its work tightening the skin of the turkey and helping to seal in the juices that will run at the breast. Afterward you can baste on the half hour, using the fat and liquid in the bottom of the roasting pan to burnish the skin and, some say, to help keep the entire bird juicy within.How will I know when the turkey is done? Take its temperature. A digital thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the thigh should read 165 degrees.How long do I roast the turkey?Size of turkey Approximate cook time at 350 degrees 9 to 11 pounds 2½ hours 12 to 14 pounds 3 hours 15 to 17 pounds 3½ hours 18 to 20 pounds 4 hours 21 to 23 pounds 4½ hours 24+ pounds 5+ hoursHow do I cook a turkey in a convection oven? Convection ovens are equipped with a fan that circulates the heated air within the cooking chamber, and using one generally means roasting your turkey at a lower temperature, for less time, than in a conventional oven. It is not an exact science, but the general rule of thumb is to decrease the oven temperature called for by the recipe by 25 degrees, and to lower the cooking time by roughly 10 or 20 percent. Use a rack and a shallow roasting pan, so that the skin of the bird has maximum exposure to the heated air. And don’t worry about turning and basting the bird. With a convection oven, the result is generally a moist bird with a crisp and crackling skin.How do I carve the turkey? Watch our video here.