PhotoUpdated | May 9, 2013.Overview | In this lesson, students learn about the Magicicada periodical cicadas, which will emerge in the Northeastern United States this year after 17 years underground. They can then choose to either participate in a “citizen science” project that involves tracking ground temperatures to watch the insects emerge, or create multimedia exhibits to help others learn about cicadas, both periodical and annual.Materials | Computers with Internet access, projection equipment.Warm-Up | Without telling students what they are about to listen to, play an audio clip from magicicada.org of the Magicicada septendecim, the species of 17-year cicadas that scientists say are most likely to emerge in and around New York, New Jersey and Connecticut this year:As they listen, have students jot down the words or images that come to mind. How would they describe what they heard? What do they think produced this sound? Why?Take a few minutes to solicit responses from the class and summarize them. Did anyone guess that the sound came from an insect (or, rather, from many insects calling at once)? What other suggestions did students have, and why?Next, explain that the sound is actually the chorus of thousands, if not millions, of periodical cicadas, insects that spend more than a decade underground before emerging to mate for a few weeks during the spring. A population of these cicadas, called Magicicada Brood II, will emerge in parts of the Eastern United States later this spring. Then, have students use this Times interactive, “A Century of Cicadas” to see if and when your region has been visited by these bugs.Finally, tell students they will now read about a citizen science project that invites anyone interested to collect temperature data about the cicadas that will emerge across the Eastern United States this year.Related | In a blog post from March, “Tracking Cicadas, With Helpers,” Elizabeth Jensen reports on an effort to invite Radiolab listeners to monitor soil temperatures across the Eastern United States during the mass emergence of periodic cicadas this year:PhotoThe 17-year Magicicada Brood II cicadas are coming, and WNYC and its nationally distributed “Radiolab” program will be there to welcome them — after a mad sprint to persuade hundreds of listeners in the next two weeks to build temperature sensors and stick them in the ground, from Virginia to Connecticut. The sensors, meant to predict the start of the cicadas’ en masse emergence, measure soil temperature at a depth of eight inches. Cicadas emerge in the days after it hits 64 degrees, expected between mid-April and late-May, said John Keefe, senior editor of data news for WNYC, who, with colleagues, initially built an $80 sensor with parts from Radio Shack.An early prototype of the cicada tracker WNYC is using.John Keefe/WNYC An early prototype of the cicada tracker WNYC is using.Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:What kind of information is the Cicada Tracker project hoping to collect? From whom? Why? What is the overall goal of the project? How warm does the ground need to be for the cicadas to emerge? According to John Keefe, senior editor for data news at WNYC, “If we can get many, many people building little hard things to put in the ground, that’s just one step removed from monitoring noise, pollution, benzene in the air — take your pick,” he said. In your own words, what does he mean? Why might it be important to enlist large numbers of people to collect this kind of data? What questions about cicadas do you have after reading this article? Brainstorm a list. Where might you go to find answers?Updated: May 9, 2013: The Times has now published an article about this year’s brood. Read Carl Zimmer’s “Years Underground, Hatching an Invasion” with students, then answer the questions posed below this excerpt:From North Carolina to Connecticut, billions of creatures with eyes the color of blood and bodies the color of coal are crawling out of the earth. Periodical cicadas are emerging en masse, clambering into trees and singing a shivering chorus that can be heard for miles. What makes this emergence truly remarkable, however, is how long it’s been in the making. This month’s army of periodicalal cicadas was born in 1996. Their mothers laid their eggs in the branches of trees, where they developed for a few weeks before hatching and heading for the ground. “They just jumped out and rained down out of the trees,” said Chris Simon, a cicada biologist at the University of Connecticut.Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:How does Mr. Zimmer’s writing make vivid this “army of periodicalal cicadas” and its life span? Why does evolution favor growing up in sync for periodical cicadas? Why do scientists think these cicadas have switched between 13- and 17-year life cycles over the last half-million years?Activity | Below, we offer two options for an activity.Students in a Brood II region might choose to actually create cicada trackers and participate in the Radiolab event. Alternatively, students might instead create interactive, multimedia exhibits about cicadas for their school, a library or some other community area.For both projects, however, we recommend having students first answer the basic cicada questions posed below as part of Activity 2.1. Build a Cicada Tracker and Send in Your Data:Students in a Brood II region can participate in the Radiolab-sponsored Cicada Tracker event. In groups, students either buy a sensor, or build one of their own using the these directions then place it in the ground at school.(Update: To build a cheaper version, try these directions from a group called Hack Manhattan, which is partnering with Radiolab to host a build party on April 13 in New York City. Students and teachers invited!)When the soil has reached 64 degrees Fahrenheit, report your results.Then, when you observe the cicadas themselves, report what you see to magicicada.org, which asks you to report your location (via GPS coordinates, or simple street address), and what you observed. (Did you see a nymph or adult? How many insects did you see in all? Etc.)2. Create a Multimedia Cicada ExhibitVideo of Magicicada nymphs once they have emerged from the ground, from CicadaMania.com.Students can work in pairs or small groups to develop an interactive, multimedia exhibit about periodic cicadas for a park, museum or other interpretive center. The exhibit is meant to inform the public about cicadas, both periodical and annual. Encourage students to draw on visitors’ knowledge of these insects. In many parts of the country, for example, annual cicadas make up part of the nightly insect chorus that buzzes and drones in many backyards, parks and fields.Begin by having students brainstorm about the information the would like their exhibits to include. They might start with answers to the questions they brainstormed after reading the blog post, above. Other questions for them to consider might include:Next, have students brainstorm ways to make their exhibits interactive. How will they use elements such as touchscreens, video and other media? What kinds of visuals will they search for, and how will they use them? How might they build in ways to engage small children? How could visitors interact with maps and use other data to determine if they live in a region inhabited by periodical cicada? How could they use databases of periodical cicada records? Might they even go so far as to make a cicada recipe, like the one suggested at the end of this 1996 article about the last emergence of this type?To keep visitors engaged after their visit, students could also plan citizen science projects related to cicadas, inspired by Radiolab’s Cicada Tracker project. Students might, for example, plan mapping projects that draw on volunteer spotters, create calendars of the first emergence dates in different regions, contribute data to an already-existing mapping project, or track temperature data in the manner of the Cicada Tracker project.To wrap up, have students share their exhibit plans. In future classes, they might work to make the exhibits a reality.Going Further | In a recent piece in the Sunday Review about citizen science, “Why I Count Glass Eels,” Akiko Busch writes:PhotoEach spring, starting April 1, high school kids, college interns, retirees and pretty much anyone else with the time and inclination to put on waders can step into a frigid stream, check the net that’s been installed there to catch the eels, and work with scientists and educators to help gather data. We volunteers are continuing the traditions of generations of amateur naturalists who have observed and documented the events of the natural world. But several factors distinguish today’s citizen scientists from their predecessors. The first is a growing sense of urgency. Whether they are worried about climate change, population growth or habitat loss, many ordinary people are motivated by a powerful need to engage with events of the natural world. Add to that a host of new technologies including GPS, digital photography, interactive Web sites and mobile phone apps that allow for the efficient collection and dissemination of data. Finally, at a time when the scientific community is ever more financially stretched, using volunteers to help collect data is good sense.What citizen-science projects can you find to participate in your region? As this writer argues, participating is an experience that has tangible results for science, helps teach larger lessons, and “engages the human imagination.” Consider finding a project your whole science class might do together — and write in and tell us about it if you do.Common Core ELA Anchor Standards, 6-12:Reading1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.2. Determine central ideas or themes of a text and analyze their development; summarize the key supporting details and ideas.Speaking and Listening1. Prepare for and participate effectively in a range of conversations and collaborations with diverse partners, building on others’ ideas and expressing their own clearly and persuasively.2. Integrate and evaluate information presented in diverse media and formats, including visually, quantitatively, and orally.3. Evaluate a speaker’s point of view, reasoning, and use of evidence and rhetoric.4. Present information, findings, and supporting evidence such that listeners can follow the line of reasoning and the organization, development, and style are appropriate to task, purpose, and audience.5. Make strategic use of digital media and visual displays of data to express information and enhance understanding of presentations.Language1. Demonstrate command of the conventions of standard English grammar and usage when writing or speaking.McREL StandardsLife Sciences6.Understands relationships among organisms and their physical environment7.Understands biological evolution and the diversity of lifeNature of Science11.Understands the nature of scientific knowledge12.Understands the nature of scientific inquiry13.Understands the scientific enterprise