The public spectacle of child stars self destructing is almost clichéd. Think Britney Spears in her 20s, or the continuing struggles of Lindsay Lohan. But what’s really going on?Do you think child stars have it particularly rough?In the article “Justin Bieber and Youth’s New Wilderness,” Teddy Wayne argues that Mr. Bieber’s recent “meltdown” and the public’s reaction are very much intertwined with a “sea change in how our culture regards childhood in the 21st century.”Justin Bieber has had it rough of late. Even before this week’s news that his neighbor was accusing him of battery, the 19-year-old Canadian superstar endured a public breakup with his girlfriend, Selena Gomez; was photographed supposedly reveling with codeine-spiked cough syrup and marijuana, and was snubbed by the Grammys. He retaliated with a live-stream Internet performance that hit technical snags. He also walked bare-chested through airport security, fainted onstage and canceled another concert, was kicked out of a London nightclub on his birthday for bringing in the 14-year-old performer Jaden Smith and nearly came to sailor-mouthed blows with one of the British paparazzi (above, he’s restrained by his bodyguard). And then, in what is now de rigueur in the age of social-media celebrity, he issued a strident defense of his behavior and an attack on the press via Instagram, in which he also took a potshot at Lindsay Lohan. He later apologized and removed the post. A sampling of substances that have come his way, which some members of the public and the media have long saved up: bile, vitriol, acid. Well, big deal. This concerns a tiny subset of the population: child performers and those who read about them in supermarket tabloids. The bitter spitballs tossed from the back of the classroom are the same ones aimed at anyone in a station above us, regardless of age. Right? Maybe not. The response to Mr. Bieber’s crackup says much about our culture’s discomfort with changing notions of childhood, a decade-long shift in values and conventions that he exemplifies better than anyone.Students:Why do you think child stars are so prone to public “meltdowns”?Or do you think child stars are only acting out the way any young adult might, except that their every move is photographed for the world to see?Do you think the combination of fame and childhood can be unhealthy? Why?Do you think famous youngsters are more likely to grow up spoiled and pampered, unable to face everyday challenges?Or are we as a society unfair to child stars? Do we expect them to act more mature than most 16-, 18- or even 26-year-olds really are? And then we revel in their very public downfall?Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that include a last name.Teachers and Students: The Choice is a New York Times blog about college admission and aid.