The chairman ruled out charging higher prices for longer trips, a system used in cities like Washington and London, saying such a move in New York “would be a mistake.” But he said a frank discussion of changes to the pricing structure “will be an important part of what we’re doing.” A transit spokesman said later that Mr. Walder was not considering higher peak fares.In a wide-ranging interview with reporters at The New York Times , Mr. Walder — who wore a pair of subway token cufflinks — shared his plans to overhaul the technology of the nation’s biggest transit system. He plans to introduce so-called smart cards equipped with computer chips, digital arrival-time clocks at subway stations and GPS devices that would let passengers know exactly when the next bus was arriving.He would not detail his relationship with officials at City Hall and legislators in Albany, whose support will be critical as he pursues an ambitious agenda on state and city territory. And he begged off questions about timelines and other specifics, citing his 15 days on the job.But Mr. Walder was emphatic when discussing the prospect of a revised fare structure, noting with a hint of excitement that “you can see creative and innovative things that would happen with this.” He said an off-peak pricing plan could “generate the revenue we need and get more people to be using the transit system at different times of day.”A change to the fare system would require approval from the transportation authority’s board, most of whose members are appointed by the mayor and the governor.PhotoAndrew Albert, a nonvoting board member and chairman of the New York City Transit Riders Council, said he was hesitant about the idea. “You really already have some crushed loads at off-peak periods,” he said, citing crowded platforms on some weekends. “London is not necessarily the same as New York.”The price of a single bus or subway ride — $2.25, after a 12.5 percent increase this summer — is largely symbolic: about half of riders travel with unlimited-ride MetroCards, and the price for each ride varies depending on which type of card is used.Advertisement Continue reading the main storyFor years, however, the subway token represented a key economic indicator for New York, akin to a slice of pizza . A nickel fare reigned from the system’s first days, in 1904, through World War II, an egalitarian entry fee that also starved the system of funds. Fares began rising in 1948.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.The unlimited-ride MetroCard was introduced in 1998, after years of effort at the authority that included contributions from Mr. Walder, then the chief financial officer. Ridership on weekdays has since swelled by 40 percent, and weekend ridership has risen almost 70 percent. In 2008, the average weekday ridership was 7.6 million, according to New York City Transit.About $220 million is included in the authority’s new capital plan to install a smart card payment system similar to London’s Oyster card, a no-swipe fare card that is waved over a sensor to speed up payment. Mr. Walder wants the cards to be linked to credit card accounts and usable in multiple forms of transit. Unlike in other cities, however, passengers in New York would not have to wave their cards again to exit the system.This has long been a topic of interest for Mr. Walder, who promoted the benefits of a variable pricing system, citing the London operation as an example in a 2007 speech at City College.“This should be an absolutely revenue-neutral policy,” Mr. Walder, then a London-based consultant for McKinsey & Company, told a group of transit experts. “You are not doing this to raise money. You are doing this to improve the efficiency of the transport system we have, to allow people to make their choices about what they want to do. And it is very, very doable with the technology we have today.”“I think every one of these conclusions is applicable to New York,” Mr. Walder said at the end of his presentation.On Wednesday, he said he could not rule out an overall fare increase as the authority grappled with a possible budget shortfall of $113 million, announced by Gov. David A. Paterson last week as part of an across-the-board cut to state spending.“There are no easy answers for these questions,” Mr. Walder said. “I can’t say anything is off the table, but I’m not starting from that place. I’m not getting there in doing it, but I’m certainly not taking anything off the table.”Mr. Walder also said that he was not bothered by the stringent attacks on the authority by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg ’s re-election campaign.“Frankly, I think that expressing those frustrations is fair,” Mr. Walder said.