In June, a Marine Corps veteran named David Nelson wrote a letter to President Obama expressing concern that the rapid advances of Islamist militants in northern Iraq might prompt the United States to send troops back to bolster the shaky government in Baghdad. In his letter, Mr. Nelson, who was a judge advocate during the Vietnam War, wondered whether the Obama administration might use the successes of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, much the way President Lyndon B. Johnson used confrontations between North Vietnamese torpedo boats and an American destroyer in August 1964 to justify expanded military action in Vietnam.The 50th anniversary of the 1964 episode, the Gulf of Tonkin incident, came and went. Then, on Thursday, Mr. Nelson, now a lawyer in Houston, received an email from the president. In it, Mr. Obama said, “I want to be clear: American forces will not be returning to combat in Iraq.” But he added that the United States was “gathering more information about potential targets associated with ISIS, and, in consultation with Congress and leaders in Iraq and the region, we will be prepared to take targeted and precise military action if the situation requires it.”The White House declined to comment on the exchange but did not dispute the authenticity of the president’s email.Hours after Mr. Nelson received that message, Mr. Obama announced that he had authorized limited airstrikes against Islamist militants in Iraq. Several hours after that, Navy F-18 fighters dropped bombs on an ISIS target near Erbil, the capital of Iraq’s Kurdistan region.Below are Mr. Nelson’s letter to the president and the president’s response.Mr. President,The old saying is that “history repeats itself.” But in the current Iraq situation I implore you NOT to let the history of our nation 50 years ago repeat itself.In early August, 1964, an incident occurred in the Gulf of Tonkin that led to Congress passing the infamous Gulf of Tonkin Resolution. Within a few months thousands of U.S. troops were sent into Vietnam even though President Johnson, Senator Richard Russell, and others never did see light at the end of the tunnel.My boyhood friend Lee Roy Herron joined the Marine Corps in 1964 and I did the same in 1965. That friendship ended on February 22, 1969, when Lee Roy died heroically in battle in Vietnam, receiving the Navy Cross posthumously. How many friends, relatives, and loved ones already have been lost in Iraq and Afghanistan? How much of our nation’s treasure has been lost in those two countries, just as in Vietnam?Based on what occurred in the summer of 1964, we can predict with a high degree of certainty what will occur if a “Gulf of Tonkin” incident happens in Iraq. Assume for the moment that U.S. planes are sent into Iraq and one is shot down. What will happen?You could make a safe bet that in certain quarters, there will be a loud cry for our country to exercise its military might by sending troops back into Iraq. But if that response is chosen, I fervently hope that you and others in power can see light at the end of the tunnel.I would hate to see history of 50 years ago repeat itself. Unless there is a compelling reason for American troops or planes to go into Iraq other than some vague notion of protecting our national security interests, please don’t get our nation involved militarily.Currently there is an idea that if extremists take over Iraq, terrorists then will have the opportunity to plan attacks on the United States. That may be the case, but is that any compelling justification for our country to “send in the troops”? Terrorists already can plan and train for attacks on our soil from other places such as Iran, Syria, Yemen, or in the mountains of Afghanistan. Iraq would be just one more of numerous such places.I encourage you to stand fast and not allow American prestige or bravado to cause another needless war. Now is the time for our nation’s leadership NOT to let history repeat itself.Respectfully,David NelsonCaptain, U.S. Marine Corps 1971-73Houston, TexasOn Thursday, Mr. Nelson received this email in response.