PhotoIn the wake of violence and tragedies, I often find myself writing about, and thinking about, how to approach the topic with my children, who may be frightened by the facts or, at an older age, by our inability to offer a satisfying explanation for why people do the terrible things they sometimes do.In the case of the nine people killed at a church in Charleston, S.C., I’m not asking those questions.Many people, including the Charleston police, believe race was a motive in the shooting. The Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division is joining the investigation, and says it would be working along with the F.B.I. and the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of South Carolina to investigate the shooting as a hate crime.On that, at least, our children have already been given the basics of “why.” In what are called history lessons, often surrounding Martin Luther King Day, they learn that black people did not have the same rights as white people, that they could not drink from the same water fountains or ride in the front of the bus. Later, when older, they learn about lynchings, beatings, the bombing of a church in Birmingham, and about the legacy of slavery, segregation and fear. Racial hatred and racial violence are a familiar landscape for our children. But it’s a historical landscape, one of black-and-white news pictures and hatted figures wearing suits and ties.How many of your children have confidently declared to you, one way or another, that black people “used to be” treated differently by whites?We are not, in general, good at creating a school curriculum around existing controversies: The children of the Seventies learned little about Vietnam; only the most fortunate of today’s students (those with excellent teachers) study the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan in any depth. Particularly for our youngest learners, we prefer our lessons in black and white, so to speak. But the history of black and white relations has slipped into the curriculum under false pretenses: the illusion that the civil rights movement is over, and the good guys won.To talk to our children about what happened in Charleston, we need only tell them that those attitudes they were taught were dusty historical artifacts never went away, but only went into hiding, sometimes in plain sight. If we parents are doing our jobs right, we are already talking to our children, black, brown or white, about insidious racism, the kind that hides in our entertainment, our institutions and even in ourselves. Especially for white parents, those may be easier conversations. Terrible things may happen as a result of those hidden biases, but no one wants those things to happen. Mistakes are made.There is no mistaking the intent of the gunman in Charleston, and even though we cannot be certain racism was among his motives, our assumptions say it all. We adults don’t believe that racial hatred is over or that race-based violence has ended. We know better. The legacy of slavery, segregation and fear extends long past the “history” our children have learned.The true “why” of a tragedy like the Charleston shooting will always be elusive, and that will always be frightening. For most of us, there is no understanding what went on in the mind of the man behind the gun there, just as there is no way to comprehend (and thus control) the men behind countless other recent horrors.But when racism is part of the motive, we’ve at least given our children the framework to understand where that hatred comes from. Now, we need to admit that it isn’t reaching out from the pages of their schoolbooks. The saga of racism in this country is ongoing; we are still living that complex history. It’s a story of what “used to” happen, and what sometimes, on some terrible days, happens still.