I live on Block Island most summers, a small sea-swept island 13 miles off the Rhode Island coast. Every season, Lyme disease cripples the community here, as it does in many wooded Northeastern towns, but I’ve never seen it as epidemic — and as controversial — as it is this year.Never have I heard so many friends, acquaintances and strangers complain of being laid low by the disease. My neighbor one house down was just released from the hospital with a serious case, a friend’s son had it twice this spring, and my mother’s dog was just diagnosed with its third case in two years. (In fact, I just finished mashing doxycycline pills into a bowl of Alpo, a highly unpleasant task, but it’s the only way I can get the dog to take its medicine.)Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne illness in the United States. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported almost 30,000 cases in 2009, up from about 20,000 in 2004. Many experts believe the numbers only represent 10 percent to 20 percent of diagnosed cases. Typical symptoms of Lyme disease include a skin rash, flulike aches and pains, fever and fatigue, and it’s most prevalent in Northeast states, with Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Delaware and Pennsylvania topping the charts of confirmed cases.Treatment for adults and children over 8 is typically a two- to four-week course of doxycycline. Younger children receive amoxicillin for the same period. Not all cases of Lyme disease are cured by the first round of treatment, however, and a debate is currently raging over further treatment regimens and the possibility of a condition called Chronic Lyme.Though Rhode Island doesn’t currently rank among the states with the highest incidence rates, cases of Lyme disease continue to abound, spurring the Block Island town council to vote last April to significantly reduce or eliminate the deer population (estimated by the island’s deer task force at one deer per two residents; it’s also estimated by local officials that two-thirds of the island’s deer ticks carry Lyme disease, versus a national figure of one in 100).The fact that those graceful white-tailed creatures that my children — Zane, 9, Otto, 5, and Kip, an animal-obsessed 2-year-old — so enjoy spotting at dusk are hosts to the black-legged tick is heart-wrenching but true. Better they go, the island has decided, than have our loved ones continue to be debilitated by the disease.In the meantime, I’m consumed by fear along with many other parents on the island. I examine my children several times a day, probing between toes, behind ears, scanning their (usually naked, anyway) bodies for any sign of a tick or a tick bite. On top of the sunblock I’ve already smeared all over them, I spray a heavy layer of insect repellent and sternly remind them to stay out of high grasses and check themselves and one another whenever they can. My two oldest have gotten so paranoid they scream “Tick! Tick!” whenever they see a foreign object on someone’s skin. Otto recently rebuked me for not checking “between my noses,” whatever that means.According to Elizabeth Dyer, the nurse practitioner at the island’s medical center, up to five people a day are currently coming in with bull’s-eye rashes, the telltale red circular patches that can appear at the site of a tick bite. Only about one in five of those patients are children, interestingly. She suspects that’s because children are less likely to notice a tick bite and less able to articulate their symptoms. Another possible explanation (that contradicts her theory) is that parents are less apt to see ticks on themselves in time and quicker to see them on their children because of the frequency of bathing, dressing and sun-screening. (Since it takes 36 to 48 hours for a tick to transmit the disease, a quick removal should mean no bull’s-eye.) A third explanation is that we as parents have made our children so anxious they (like mine) routinely and fastidiously check themselves.Many more people — 10 to 15 a day, Ms. Dyer estimates — show up at the medical center with tick bites but no rash, suspected tick bites, or even no suspected tick bite but complaints of Lyme disease symptoms. Those cases, she said, are much harder to handle, and the patients are less likely to leave satisfied. Lyme disease is notoriously tough to detect. It takes at least two to three weeks for the antibodies to show up in a blood test and even then there are false positives and false negatives. Further complicating the situation, there appears to be no universally accepted treatment protocol, with each community following its own set of theories, rules and practices.On Block Island, a case confirmed by blood test gets treated with a three-week course of doxycycline for adults and amoxicillin for children. But the set protocol is only for those confirmed cases. Practitioners here regularly customize treatment for other patients depending on how they present and how they want to proceed. A bull’s-eye rash or engorged tick bite on adults with symptoms might get a one-dose prophylactic treatment (two 100 mg pills of doxycycline) and a recommended blood test in a few weeks or may go untreated if the nurse or doctor and the patient agree they would rather wait and see.The other unbending protocol is that children under 8 are never treated prophylactically — because doxycycline is contraindicated for young children (it can turn their teeth orange), and there’s no one-dose-sized prophylactic version of amoxicillin. Their advice to parents is “Wait, ride it out, see how your kid feels in a few weeks and keep in close touch with your primary care physician if there’s any change in their overall health.” Ms. Dyer said.But in the end, she said, practitioners out here use their gut, adding, “There’s no amount of test results or computers or data that replaces your clinical assessment.”If Lyme disease is an issue in your area, what are you, your family and your community doing to stay safe? How do local practitioners handle cases, rashes and the tick-bitten unconfirmed, and are people satisfied with the treatments they receive?