Anger and Dismay Online as Egypt Sentences JournalistsRights activists, bloggers and journalists in Egypt responded with dismay on Monday after an Egyptian court sentenced three journalists to long prison terms despite a lack of evidence that the men, who worked for Al Jazeera English, had done anything but report on the unrest in the country last summer after the military deposed the elected president, Mohamed Morsi.As my colleague David Kirkpatrick reports, the crew was convicted of conspiring with the Muslim Brotherhood to broadcast false reports of civil strife in Egypt last year.So as it turns out in Egypt journalism is a crime. — arabist (@arabist) 23 Jun 14Beyond the embarrassing verdict, there are lives of people who were doing ther job destroyed. & a profession of great importance stigmatised — Mostafa Hussein (@moftasa) 23 Jun 14#Egypt’s corrupt judges/prosecutors are the real criminals. This country’s judiciary belongs behind bars, not its journalists! #FreeAJStaff — Jano Charbel (@JanoCharbel) 23 Jun 14The three journalists are respected professionals who have all reported from Egypt for other international news organizations. Mohamed Fahmy, a Canadian citizen of Egyptian descent, previously worked for CNN and The New York Times; Peter Greste, an Australian, had worked for the BBC and had spent only a few days in Egypt at the time of his arrest; and Baher Mohamed, an Egyptian, previously worked for the Japanese news organization The Asahi Shimbun.As they were being led out, mohamed fought with guards to let him speak, Baher had his head in hands, Peter looked in shock shaking his head — Sherine Tadros (@SherineT) 23 Jun 14In messages posted on Twitter, Al Anstey, the managing director of Al Jazeera English, called the verdict unjust and promised to continue rallying support for the reporters.Today’s verdict in Egypt defies logic, sense and any semblance of justice #FreeAJStaff — Al Anstey (@AlAnsteyAJ) 23 Jun 14Not a shred of evidence has been presented against our excellent journalists #FreeAJStaff #journalismisnotacrime — Al Anstey (@AlAnsteyAJ) 23 Jun 14Thank you for your support to #freeajstaff. Keep it going. We will continue with resolve till Peter, Baher and Mohamed are free. — Al Anstey (@AlAnsteyAJ) 23 Jun 14On the eve of the verdict, dozens of foreign correspondents and editors at international news organizations had signed a letter appealing to President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to pardon the journalists. After the sentencing, many more of their colleagues in newsrooms around the world joined the online campaign to free the Al Jazeera staff.As a friend I feel incredibly sad, as a journalist I’m scared, as an Egyptian I’m ashamed #AJTrial — Sherine Tadros (@SherineT) 23 Jun 14Reax after hearing #AJtrial sentence, @Bahrooz @Repent11. Barely keep from crying after taking photo. #FreeAJStaff //t.co/UvHtFGVKVO — Amir Makar (@makartwo) 23 Jun 14Some close observers of Egypt’s international relations, like Michael Hanna, a fellow at The Century Foundation in New York, pointed out that the harsh ruling came just one day after Secretary of State John Kerry had visited Egypt and promised to restart military aid to the new government led by Mr. Sisi, the former military chief who removed the elected president last year.Timing of Kerry visit to Cairo yesterday is inexplicable in light of today’s AJE verdict. I wonder if assurances were given re the verdict. — Michael Hanna (@mwhanna1) 23 Jun 14According to Ruth Pollard of The Sydney Morning Herald, Mr. Fahmy, who tweets as @Repent11, made a wry comment about Mr. Kerry as the defendants waited for the verdict.“Where’s John Kerry” @Repent11 says from the defendant’s cage. )The US Secretary of State was in #Egypt yesterday to meet Pres al-Sisi). — Ruth Pollard (@rpollard) 23 Jun 14The Arabist, a Cairo blog founded by the Moroccan-American political analyst Issandr El Amrani, suggested that the verdict would do little to reassure investors about the rule of law in Egypt.The message to investors about Egypt is pretty clear: stay away, if a business dispute goes to court you’ll be in the hands of loonies. — arabist (@arabist) 23 Jun 14Heba Morayef, a former Egypt director for Human Rights Watch, said that the verdict, which could eventually be overturned on appeal, suggests that the climate for press freedom in Egypt is now worse than it was before the autocratic Hosni Mubarak was forced from power in 2011.Not a verdict we wd have seen under Mubarak where sensitivity to int’l reputation wd have resulted in a release for high-profile journos — hebamorayef (@hebamorayef) 23 Jun 14Appeal process (on points of law, then retrial) will be slow esp w judiciary summer vacation, trials unlikely to b scheduled til Sept or so — hebamorayef (@hebamorayef) 23 Jun 14Having said that, timing/pace/speed of trials has always been discretionary& there could be a decision to speed up appeals process. — hebamorayef (@hebamorayef) 23 Jun 14After the verdict, the police attempted to block journalists in the courtroom and outside from recording the reaction of the defendants and their family members, according to the Cairo-based reporters Louisa Loveluck and Jared Malsin.“They will pay for this, I promise they will pay for this,” shouts Fahmy as police drag him from the courtroom cage. //t.co/ntUQpX5UxS — Louisa Loveluck (@leloveluck) 23 Jun 14Now the police are angrily clearing the defendants families and journalists from the prison entrance #AJTrial //t.co/Zu3nA6GZ0d — Jared Malsin (@jmalsin) 23 Jun 14During his visit to Cairo, Mr. Kerry was assured by Sameh Shoukry, the new Egyptian foreign minister, that the country was moving ahead with a return to democracy. However, Egyptians noted in the wake of the verdict that the country’s new constitution is supposed to guarantee press freedom.Irony: Article 70 from the Egyptian constitution: “Freedom of journalism.. guaranteed by the state”. #AJTrial //t.co/bL5nkwaGnd — Mina Fayek (@minafayek) 23 Jun 14Mr. Shoukry, who was the Mubarak government’s last ambassador in Washington, was called an opponent of free speech by American diplomats in a leaked State Department cable written in 2008. That cable, describing his previous work at the United Nations in Geneva, described him as aggressively pursuing “goals the U.S. does not support.”“This has been most noticeable in the Human Rights Council, where Egypt has been arguably the most difficult delegation from our perspective, pushing hard — and often effectively — for many troubling Organization of the Islamic Conference’s resolutions and amendments, such as the one that subverted the mandate on freedom of expression,” American diplomats wrote in July 2008.According to the BBC correspondent Lyse Doucet, state television in Egypt reported that Mr. Shoukry had forcefully rejected pressure from foreign governments to overturn the decision on Monday.#Egypt State TV “FM: Egypt asserts full rejection against any interference in its internal affairs”#journalismisnotacrime #FreeAJStaff — lyse doucet (@bbclysedoucet) 23 Jun 14Asked about the case during a news conference in Baghdad on Monday, Mr. Kerry told reporters that he had spoken with President Sisi about the case against the journalists during his visit, and then called Mr. Shoukry to object after the verdicts were announced.John Kerry says he phoned Egypt’s foreign minister to register “our serious displeasure” with court’s verdict against journalists. — Reuters Top News (@Reuters) 23 Jun 14Kerry says when he heard abt #AJStaff verdict he called Egyptian FM to register his concern. Sentencing is “chilling, draconian” 1/2 — Kim Ghattas (@BBCKimGhattas) 23 Jun 14Kerry says he discussed these cases w al Sisi yday, now critical for Egy prez to move quickly to address int’l concerns on this. #AJTrial — Kim Ghattas (@BBCKimGhattas) 23 Jun 14In a statement released later on Monday, Mr. Kerry said: “Today’s conviction and chilling, draconian sentences by the Cairo Criminal Court of three Al Jazeera journalists and fifteen others in a trial that lacked many fundamental norms of due process, is a deeply disturbing set-back to Egypt’s transition. Injustices like these simply cannot stand if Egypt is to move forward in the way that President al-Sisi and Foreign Minister Shoukry told me just yesterday that they aspire to see their country advance.”The court also sentenced in absentia a Dutch reporter, Rena Netjes, to 10 years in jail. Ms. Netjes, who left Egypt in February after being indicted in the case, was apparently convicted of anti-Egypt plotting just for having had coffee with one of the Al Jazeera journalists at the Marriott Hotel in Cairo. The case against her was so slight prosecutors were unable to even get her name right, having called her “Johanna Identity” in the official indictment.10 years for a cup of coffee in The Mariott. Too bizar for a filmscript. #Egypt — Rena Netjes (@RenaNetjes) 23 Jun 14The Dutch foreign minister summoned Egypt’s ambassador to the Netherlands to demand an explanation, the country’s embassy in Cairo reported on Facebook.The Egyptian bloggers Sherief Gaber and Amro Ali said that the ruling on Monday illustrated that reform of Egypt’s judiciary, a demand of the protesters who filled Tahrir Square in 2011, remained necessary.Now you know why law schools in #Egypt need to be reformed and elevated to the highest discipline, not lowest, in the county. #AJTrial — Amro Ali (@_amroali) 23 Jun 14#Egypt 3 years ago; a protest holding the casket of the Egyptian Judiciary. Sadly, this is hardly news //t.co/dieZMGRXgm — sherief gaber (@cairocitylimits) 23 Jun 14There was also concern on Monday for the fate of rights activists detained on Saturday after a march against a new law banning unsanctioned protests was stopped by the police.Meanwhile we are still waiting for the prosecutor to hear about the fate of the detained from June 21st including @sana2 #NoProtestLaw — Gigi Ibrahim (@Gsquare86) 23 Jun 14