DOLLAR RISES AFTER YELLEN’S TALK | The dollar, Treasury yields and equities rose on Friday, after Janet L. Yellen said that the Federal Reserve still intended to raise its benchmark interest rate this year, The Financial Times reports. The FTSE Eurofirst 300, a European stock barometer, was up 2.6 percent in early trading, while United States index futures suggested the S.&P. would open higher. The demand for havens such as gold and the Japanese yen also eased. Asian markets were mixed on Friday, with the Hang Seng up 0.4 percent, but the Shanghai Composite down 1.6 percent. The reiteration that a rate rise is coming continues to affect emerging market currencies. The Malaysian ringgit is at its weakest since the Asian financial crisis. Ms. Yellen emphasized that the central bank was not planning to wait much longer, because labor market conditions were improving and inflation is still expected to follow, Binyamin Appelbaum reports in The New York Times. Ms. Yellen played down the likelihood of delaying a rate increase because of slower growth in other countries. “The committee is monitoring developments abroad, but we do not currently anticipate that the effects of these recent developments on the U.S. economy will prove to be large enough to have a significant effect on the path for policy,” she said. If growth fails to live up to Fed expectations, it might still delay an interest rate rise. Ms. Yellen’s speech at the University of Massachusetts focused on explaining why the Fed expects inflation to return to a healthy annual rate of 2 percent. Inflation has remained below 2 percent since the recession and prices have barely increased over the last year. Ms. Yellen acknowledged that economists do not entirely understand inflation movements, but said that the Fed remained confident in the longstanding view that inflation in the long term was determined by public expectations. Inflation has been hampered by lower energy prices and a strong dollar. But Ms. Yellen said the economic slack was having less of an effect on keeping inflation low, so a rebound in inflation was expected. Ms. Yellen also played down the importance of the decline in another measurement of inflation expectations, which is derived from the market prices of financial assets. She said recent declines most likely reflected other factors, like increased demand for safer assets, rather than a long-term shift.VOLKSWAGEN EXPECTED TO NAME NEW CHIEF | Volkswagen is expected to name a new chief executive on Friday, Jack Ewing andMelissa Eddy report in The New York Times. Matthias Müller, who leads the division of Volkswagen that makes Porsches, is the most likely contender, according to people close to the company’s supervisory board. The Porsche division has been untouched by the emissions scandal and accounts for most of the parent company’s profit, along with Audi. The board is also expected to announce further management changes. Pressure has continued to mount on the carmaker. Alexander Dobrindt, Germany’s transportation minister, said on Thursday that the software used to fool emissions tests might have been installed in millions of cars in Europe, not just the United States. This means the deceptive software was more widely used than the company had disclosed and 10 million cars in Europe could be affected. The European Commission urged its member nations to test vehicles. Investors are also nervous. Shares in BMW fell on Thursday after a magazine reported that one of its models produced suspicious test results. BMW denied the accusations. It is only a matter of time before the company has to deal with multiple civil and criminal penalties,Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. The Environmental Protection Agency can impose penalties of up to $37,500 for every vehicle for violations of the Clean Air Act. Based on its sales of nearly 500,000 vehicles with the software installed, Volkswagen could face a penalty of $18 billion. The Justice Department can also seek criminal punishment based on the same conduct. Volkswagen could also face fines based on its profits because of the violations or any losses suffered by victims as they failed to get the expected performance or mileage out of their vehicles. The recent G.M. settlement is comparable because it involved criminal charges for making false statements to the government and wire fraud. Those charges will be dismissed if G.M. fulfills the terms of a deferred prosecution agreement — the outcome of its cooperation with the investigation. To get a nice deal like G.M.’s, Volkswagen would have to demonstrate its cooperation by providing information on violations, including by executives, Mr. Henning says. When Martin Winterkorn referred to the “terrible mistakes made by only a few” and maintained that he was unaware of any wrongdoing, it appeared that senior management was trying to put the focus on lower level employees. The challenge for prosecutors will be getting information that implicates people higher up. While many have been surprised that this happened at the largest carmaker in the world, Volkswagen’s history, culture and corporate structure make it a mystery that a scandal like this didn’t happen sooner, James B. Stewart writes in the Common Sense column. Volkswagen’s recent history — a decades-long feud within the controlling Porsche family, a convoluted takeover battle and a boardroom coup — has dominated the German media. Ferdinand Piëch, who reigned over the supervisory board, stepped down as chairman in April after failing to oust Martin Winterkorn. In 2012, shareholders elected Mr. Piëch’s fourth wife to the board in spite of protests over her lack of qualifications and independence. Shareholders have little influence. Porsche and Piëch family members own over half the voting shares and vote as a bloc. Labor representatives hold three of the five seats on the executive committee. Half the board seats are held by union officials and labor. The remaining seats are split between the government of Lower Saxoy, representatives of Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, a few more members of the Piëch and Porsche families. A management representative holds another seat. Outside views rarely penetrate. The recent scandal seems sure to intensify pressure for change, but the German public is used to companies having this sort of corporate governance. But given the serious financial and reputational damage, the long-term survival of Volkswagen is a real question, Mr. Stewart writes.ON THE AGENDA | Revised second-quarter gross domestic product figures will be released at 8:30 a.m. James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, will discuss new directions in monetary policy at 9:15 a.m. in St. Louis.