Daniel Rosenbaum for The New York TimesAfter becoming the public face of Wall Street oversight and reining in firms like Goldman Sachs, Robert S. Khuzami is walking away from the spotlight.Mr. Khuzami, 56, a former terrorism prosecutor who revamped the Securities and Exchange Commission’s enforcement unit in the wake of the financial crisis, said Wednesday that he was stepping down from the agency after a four-year tenure.His departure signals the end of an important chapter in the history of the agency, which has been praised for taking action against some of Wall Street’s largest banks after the 2008 financial crisis, but has also drawn criticism for not doing enough to punish top executives at those same firms.Mr. Khuzami inherited a demoralized unit in 2009. It was much maligned for missing years of warning signs of the credit bubble and Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.An imposing presence with a piercing stare, Mr. Khuzami quickly reorganized the management ranks in the enforcement division, creating specialized units to track complex corners of Wall Street, and applied aggressive prosecutorial tactics to civil cases. Under him, the division has logged a record number of actions, many of them against companies at the center of the crisis.“They know we’re out there, and we’re smarter and can cover more ground,” Mr. Khuzami said in an interview.Daniel Rosenbaum for The New York TimesHis successor, who has not been named, will face significant challenges. For example, the enforcement unit must contend with the increasingly influential high-speed trading firms that, by some accounts, have destabilized the stock market.The unit also faces lingering questions about its negotiating tactics. Some consumer advocates complain that the agency’s headline-grabbing settlements hardly made a dent in the billions of dollars of profits earned on Wall Street. The enforcement division notably butted heads with a prominent federal judge in New York, Jed S. Rakoff, who in 2010 called the agency’s $150 million settlement with Bank of America over lax public disclosures “half-baked justice at best.”Mr. Khuzami’s departure in about two weeks will be part of a broader exodus from the S.E.C. after the resignation of its chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, in November. Among the other people departing are the agency’s head of trading and markets and its director of corporation finance. Elisse B. Walter, Ms. Schapiro’s replacement as chairwoman, has named interim officials to those positions.But officials say the enforcement division could struggle under a provisional leader. The chief of the unit, they note, is the top cop on Wall Street, effectively setting the tone for financial oversight.Ms. Walter is weighing a short list of candidates to replace Mr. Khuzami, people briefed on the matter said. The list includes the enforcement division’s chief litigation counsel, Matthew T. Martens, and Mr. Khuzami’s current deputy, George S. Canellos.As for Mr. Khuzami, described alternately as harsh or playful with his employees, he is positioned for a lucrative job at a white-shoe law firm.“I don’t know what I’m doing next, but I loved the last four years and I’m sad it’s ending,” he said.Mr. Khuzami, a native of Rochester, N.Y., had a bohemian upbringing that hardly hinted at a path to the S.E.C. His parents were ballroom dancers, his sister a muralist and his brother a drummer. They jokingly refer to Mr. Khuzami as “the white sheep” of the family.He put himself through school by working odd jobs as a dishwasher, bartender and overnight dockworker. He was hired out of law school as a junior lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York.Mr. Khuzami then tried out for the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York under Rudolph W. Giuliani, but missed the cut. When the office hired him in the early 1990s, he was assigned to terrorism prosecutions. The move led to a career-defining case: the conviction of Omar Abdel-Rahman, the so-called Blind Sheik tied to the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center. He later ran a securities task force for the United States attorney’s office.After more than a decade as a prosecutor, he departed for Deutsche Bank, where he eventually became general counsel for the firm’s American arm.In 2009, he caught Ms. Schapiro’s attention. She was searching for an aggressive personality to shake up the S.E.C.’s enforcement team.“It had to be someone who was a great prosecutor,” Ms. Schapiro said in an interview.Mr. Khuzami soon hatched a plan for overhauling — some officials called it dismantling — the enforcement division.He arrived in Washington with strategies straight from the playbook of the United States attorney’s office. He pushed the S.E.C. to offer leniency for cooperating witnesses and to strike deferred prosecution agreements with companies that promised to behave.He poached former prosecutors for his staff, including Lorin L. Reisner. He plucked other hires from Wall Street, including traders and compliance officers. Adam Storch, then a 29-year-old Goldman Sachs vice president, became the unit’s first chief operating officer.Under Mr. Khuzami’s direction, the enforcement team eliminated a layer of management, moving senior lawyers onto the front lines of investigations. He mandated that all enforcement employees carry a BlackBerry, holding them accountable beyond the 9-to-5 workday.Mr. Khuzami created the Office of Market Intelligence to analyze tips and complaints from investors. He also opened five units to track some of the darkest corners of finance, focusing on structured products like derivatives, market abuse and the secretive world of hedge fund returns.“The changes were necessary and dramatic,” Ms. Schapiro said.Mr. Khuzami introduced the broad outlines of reform in spring 2009 at a retreat in Solomons Island, Md., an annual gathering of nearly 200 senior enforcement officials. “It’s time to get serious about change,” he told the packed Holiday Inn conference room, according to attendees.But his message worried enforcement lawyers, who lined up at the microphones to question new procedures and to raise concerns about potential violations of their contracts. A few top officials, some of whom were widely respected, were about to be left on the sideline.“Everyone in the office was scared, but we also started working harder,” said Thomas A. Sporkin, who ran the Office of Market Intelligence until last year, when he left the agency.The group faced growing pains. Mr. Khuzami had a knack for grilling lawyers about the details of enforcement cases, according to staff members. And he urged his employees to ask each night, “How did I add value today?” — a line he repeated in an e-mail to staff on Wednesday.Employees also recalled a softer side. As a motivational tool, they said, Mr. Khuzami would publicly perform for his staff. At a swearing-in ceremony for new members, he quoted poetry by Gwendolyn Brooks. Once, he donned a red wig at an awards ceremony to sing a version of the “Annie” theme song, “Tomorrow,” with the lyrics twisted to fit the S.E.C.“Even though he scares the hell out of people,” one employee said, “you like him because he’s genuine.”His tactics appeared to bear fruit. During his tenure, the enforcement unit leveled more charges than in any comparable four-year period, including a record number of cases in 2011.Mr. Khuzami emphasized that the unit was also tracking bigger game. It took aim at billionaire hedge fund managers, including Philip Falcone, and filed cases involving collateralized debt obligations, a crackdown that ensnared prominent names on Wall Street. At the urging of Mr. Khuzami and Mr. Reisner, the S.E.C. brought a landmark case against Goldman Sachs, netting a record settlement of $550 million in 2010.“He’s really broadened the net,” said Mary Jo White, a white-collar-criminal defense lawyer at Debevoise & Plimpton, who was Mr. Khuzami’s boss when she was the United States attorney in Manhattan.Some consumer advocates say the enforcement unit remains too timid. They complain that it opted not to charge Lehman Brothers executives and was soft on firms like Bank of America and Citigroup. In 2011, Judge Rakoff refused to bless a $285 million deal with Citigroup in a case involving a collateralized debt obligation, calling it “pocket change.”Critics also question why the agency sued only a handful of top executives who ran companies at the center of the credit crisis.“If you’re rich and connected on Wall Street, then don’t worry about the S.E.C.,” said Dennis M. Kelleher, chief executive of Better Markets, a nonprofit advocacy group critical of the financial industry.Mr. Khuzami dismissed the grumbling, noting that his unit sued 65 senior executives involved in the crisis, including the leaders of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and most of the major mortgage companies that caused the housing bubble. In the cases involving big banks, he said, there was not enough evidence to implicate chief executives.Despite their differences, Judge Rakoff credited Mr. Khuzami with a rapid turnaround of the enforcement division.“Although, from our different perspectives, Rob Khuzami and I sharply disagree about some matters, over all I think he has done a terrific job,” he said.