Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto AgencyTOKYO — Japan Airlines made a lackluster return to the stock market Wednesday after the biggest initial public offering this year since Facebook, its share price weighed down by investor jitters over the airline’s prospects in a cutthroat industry, as well as anti-Japanese protests in China that threaten travel between the two countries.JAL shares failed to sustain an early rally on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, ending the day at 3,830 yen, or $48.56, barely above its offering price of 3,790 yen that valued the company at $8.5 billion. That performance was viewed as somewhat disappointing after JAL shares had jumped as much as 10 percent in the gray market, where shares are unofficially traded ahead of listings through stockbrokers, and underscored investor anxiety over the airline’s potential in a notoriously volatile industry.Shares in Japan’s former flagship carrier had been priced at the top of a range set deliberately low to stoke investor interest in the airline’s relisting, just 30 months after its bankruptcy in 2010. By setting a low target, JAL hoped to avoid the fate of Facebook, whose share price slump below its offering price on the second day of trading.But JAL, based in Tokyo, also found itself under pressure to raise enough money to return to state coffers the 350 billion yen, or $4.4 billion, in bailout money it received to finance its corporate turnaround. With its I.P.O., JAL doubled the investment that a state-backed fund made in the carrier in 2010. That fund, the Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corporation of Japan, is thought to have sold its 96.5 percent stake in JAL, netting a hefty profit.‘‘We just listed today, and rather than waver between hope and fear on every price movement, we should focus on raising value for our shareholders in the long run,’’ JAL’s president, Yoshiharu Ueki, said after markets closed.Mark Ralston/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesJAL’s offering caps two years of intense reorganization that eliminated 21,000 jobs, or about a third of the airline’s work force; cut pilots’ salaries by 30 percent; slashed pensions; and retired the company’s prized jumbo jets. The airline dropped a third of its international routes and reduced by half the number of its group companies.Its balance sheet is now the envy of the industry, and its 17 percent operating margin for the latest financial year was more than double that of the likes of Delta Air Lines, United Continental and JAL’s domestic competitor, All Nippon Airways.But JAL has also become a far smaller airline with a more limited global reach and capacity that may be ill positioned to tap into growth, especially in Asia, where the aviation industry is most likely to have its fastest gains. Earnings at the airline have shrunk in line with its cuts: operating revenue fell by almost 40 percent from 2008 to 2011 to 1.2 trillion yen, and a further drop in earnings is projected for the current financial year.Reflecting its shrunken ambitions, JAL’s fleet of 169 aircraft is now made up of midsize and small planes like the Boeing 787. The fleet of smaller aircraft helps cut costs and raise profitability, but could limit growth in the long run, especially compared with regional rivals like Emirates and Singapore Airlines, which are investing aggressively in their fleets.JAL is also struggling to reposition itself against the rise of low-cost carriers in Asia, which are finally starting to make forays into Japan’s highly protected domestic market. JAL introduced JetStar Japan, a low-cost venture with Qantas Airways of Australia, just two months ago.JAL’s honorary chairman, Kazuo Inamori, an 81-year-old entrepreneur tapped by the government to lead the turnaround, said caution would reign over growth for the time being. Mr. Inamori had founded the electronics company Kyocera and KDDI, Japan’s second-largest a telecommunications company.‘‘We can’t continue to cut costs forever,’’ Mr. Inamori said. ‘‘A company, of course, has to grow.’’But he said the airline industry, more than ever, was vulnerable to risks — from sudden economic downturns and political instability to natural disasters — and that the new JAL needed to tread carefully. ‘‘To seek only growth would increase those risks,’’ Mr. Inamori said. ‘‘We will remain cautious about growth and instead focus on good management.’’It has been a roller coaster journey for JAL, which rose out of the ashes of World War II and became a symbol of Japan’s rise as a global economic power. Initially state owned, it began flying its first domestic routes in 1951, expanding overseas just two years later with a flight linking Tokyo and San Francisco via Honolulu.The airline continued to grow rapidly with the Japanese economy, and supported the heyday of Japanese tour groups overseas. The red-crested crane on JAL’s aircraft became a national symbol, and girls dreamed of becoming JAL flight attendants.But overambitious investments in overseas hotels and resorts, coupled with soaring costs for personnel and pensions, started to weigh down JAL, which was privatized in 1987. More recently, the airline suffered from a drop in travel during the global economic crisis.In its turnaround, JAL benefited from a write-down of its fleet, government- arranged debt waivers and $4.5 billion in tax credits allowing the airline to offset corporate tax for almost a decade.These measures have brought intense criticism from All Nippon Airways, which has lobbied politicians to level the playing field by prioritizing it over JAL in coveted landing slot allocations at the airports serving Tokyo. If All Nippon is successful, JAL could lose air traffic.In midterm financial targets, JAL has pledged to keep its operating margin at 10 percent. It issued 175 million shares in its I.P.O., of which 131.25 million have been allocated to Japanese investors and the remaining 43.74 million to investors overseas.The I.P.O.’s of Facebook and JAL have ranked among the year’s most highly anticipated offerings. But both companies have faced some tough luck beyond their control. Facebook’s debut was marred by technical errors.JAL’s first day of trading in Tokyo came amid raging anti-Japanese protests in China over competing claims to a set of disputed islands, a spat that threatens to depress travel between the two countries.Both Chinese and Japanese officials have called for calm after protesters staged rallies in more than 100 Chinese cities, vandalizing Japanese businesses, forcing Japanese manufacturers to suspend operations and threatening tourism between the two countries.