Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg NewsThe London interbank offered rate, more commonly known as Libor, is one of the most important numbers in the financial world. But until the Barclays scandal, it received scant public attention. Here is a primer.Q.What is Libor?A.Libor is the average interest rate at which banks can borrow from each other. London is mentioned in its name because the benchmark is set in that city.Essentially, Libor is one of the main rates used to determine the borrowing costs for trillions of dollars in loans. Interest rates on some mortgages, student loans and credit card accounts go up or down when Libor moves. Often the rates are adjusted annually or quarterly, rather than every day.Q.Why was Libor created, and by whom?A.In the early 1980s, banks started looking for a standard benchmark to calculate the prices on an array of financial products, and the British Bankers’ Association, an industry trade group, began publishing Libor on Jan. 1, 1986.The idea was that instead of constantly haggling over the interest rates that would be charged for different types of loans, banks would have a uniform benchmark. There are actually 150 different Libor rates published every day. They cover 10 currencies and 15 maturities.Q.How is Libor calculated?A.For United States-dollar-denominated Libor, more than a dozen banks — including Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Barclays, UBS of Switzerland and others — estimate how much interest they would pay to borrow money on a short-term basis from other institutions. While the process is still overseen by the British Bankers’ Association, the calculations are now performed by Thomson Reuters.Thomson Reuters discards the four highest and four lowest submissions as outliers, and averages the remaining ones.The data provider then publishes its calculations, generally around 11:30 a.m. London time, along with each bank’s submissions. On Tuesday, the three-month United States dollar Libor rate, one of the most common Libor metrics, stood at 0.4576 percent. During the financial crisis of 2008, that rate rose to nearly 5 percent. At the time, banks considered lending to each other much riskier, and thus wouldn’t lend unless they got a high interest rate in return.Q.What are examples of how Libor is used?A.Banks often ask borrowers to pay Libor plus an added amount of interest, reflecting the credit risk of the borrower.Many mortgage lenders in the United States rely on Libor to determine the interest rates they charge for adjustable-rate mortgages. Typically, an adjustable-rate mortgage might be 2 to 3 percentage points over the six-month Libor rate.Big corporations with strong credit typically would pay roughly 1 percentage point or less over Libor because they are considered safer bets than individual mortgage borrowers.Q.How has Libor’s use evolved over time?A.Libor was primarily created as a benchmark for banks to determine borrowing costs — and it is largely used in the same manner today, albeit for a broader group of financial products. For instance, many banks now used Libor to set the prices on derivatives, the complicated financial instruments tied to commodities, interest rates, currencies and other assets.Q.Why is Libor important?A.After more than two decades, Libor still remains one of the most highly cited benchmarks in the financial world.The British Bankers’ Association has promoted the rate-setting process as highly transparent and impartial, making Libor a good benchmark for various financial products. The group has argued that no one institution can single-handedly alter the calculations behind the rate.But amid the rate-manipulation scandal, the integrity of Libor has been called into question. In late June, Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations by regulators that it had submitted false Libor rates to bolster its bottom line and deflect scrutiny about its health.Q.Is Libor changing as a result of the rate manipulation scandal?A.A. It’s unclear at the moment. After regulators unveiled their settlement with Barclays, the B.B.A. said that it was “shocked” by the revelations and was reviewing all aspects of the Libor-setting process.