Dylan Martinez/ReutersLONDON — The rise and fall of Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive of Barclays who resigned on Tuesday in the midst of a rate-manipulation scandal, closely tracks the City of London’s own complicated history with Wall Street’s risky ways.There are of course different views on Mr. Diamond, considered to be one of Britain’s best known and most controversial investment bankers.On the one hand, he has been famously described as the unacceptable face of banking, with his brash, can-do American attitude that has become emblematic of the culture of banking. In a case that resulted in a $450 million settlement with Barclays, authorities said they found “pervasive” wrongdoing in which the bank tried to influence interest rates to benefit its own bottom line.Yet, Mr. Diamond is also the architect of one of Britain’s largest and most successful financial institutions. Unlike many of its peers, Barclays never had to take a bailout from the government during the financial crisis, emerging as one of the relative winners.“The old City of London was snobbish, racist and sexist, but at least you had the integrity of the marketplace,” said Philip Augar, a former investment banker and the author of “The Death of Gentlemanly Capitalism.”In every way, Mr. Diamond, who became a British citizen, brought an American flair to the city’s banking industry. He was a relentless promoter of the Barclays brand, attaching it to golf outings, soccer leagues and even to London’s new public bicycle program.But it was his embrace of the American-style bonus culture that became one of his main vulnerabilities.Mr. Diamond paid his people, from whom he demanded and usually got unstinting loyalty, extremely well — and he was well rewarded himself. Mr. Diamond was awarded 17 million pounds in pay and perks for last year, and his top executives, Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci, received 10. 8 million and 9.7 million pounds, respectively. They and Chris Lucas, the chief financial officer, have said that they will give up their awards for 2011.There were many shareholders in Britain who were offended by this executive compensation, as well as Mr. Diamond’s habit of deploying significant financial resources to the riskier areas of the bank.“There were some investors who believed that compensation levels were too high,” said Ian Gordon, an analyst at Investec. “But they were a minority.”And Mr. Diamond also drew frequent rebukes from regulators and politicians for Barclays’ numerous schemes to reduce its tax liabilities and those of its clients.Despite his reputation as a hard-charging trader type, Mr. Diamond always saw himself as a builder of businesses. Indeed, his stint as an actual bond trader at Morgan Stanley was relatively short and it was his relentless hunger to design, build and administer investment banking operations — and instill a binding culture in them — that drove his career trajectory.Mr. Diamond believed deeply in the idea that a common culture underpinned a bank’s success, and he spoke frequently of his “no jerks” policy, in terms of weeding out the bad apples in his bank.“In the long run, a culture has to be embedded in an organization,” he said in a past interview.But, as the gloating e-mails from his traders who were engaging in the interest rate deceptions revealed, a different type of culture prevailed among some bankers.The son of teachers, Mr. Diamond was reared in a small town in Massachusetts, and like many of the most successful bankers, he climbed the career ladder by dint of hard work and opportunism. His first job in banking in the 1970s was in the information technology department of Morgan Stanley, where he soon rose to become a senior bond executive.In 1996, he came to London as just an another anonymous investment banker. Forced out of a senior job at Credit Suisse, he was tapped by Barclays to run its small bond division.At the time, old-line commercial banks like Barclays were eager to build more profitable banking operations that would trade derivatives, bonds and foreign exchange, much of which used London as its trading hub.Soon, Mr. Diamond was presiding over most of the bank’s profits and his reputation as an opportunistic banker was solidified when in 2008 when he picked up the remains of Lehman Brothers for a song.With the acquisition, Barclays could compete head on with the likes of JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, putting Mr. Diamond in line for the top spot. When it came time for John Varley to retire in early 2011, Mr. Diamond was able to grab the prize: the opportunity to run his own bankThe problem, however, was that running a commercial bank in Britain in 2011 had become a largely political affair, as regulators, politicians and not least the governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, all took aim at British banks that were too reliant on risky, trading profits — the very business that Mr. Diamond had created.In addition to batting away criticism that his bank was not lending enough to small business, Mr. Diamond now had to confront the charge that Barclays remained a threat to the British economy because of its size.It is worth noting that the bulk of the profits minted by Mr. Diamond and his investment bank came under a Labour Party government that championed a light-touch regulation model that is being dismantled by the current conservative government. And it was under the Labour Party that most of the interest-rate transgressions occurred.Now, it is Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain and his traditionally pro-banker conservative party that is leading the charge against Barclays, setting up a Parliament inquiry and making it fairly obvious from their public statements that the best way forward was for Mr. Diamond to step down.Once embraced by a British political order that was happy to put to good use the robust tax revenues that Barclays and other banks generated during the boom, Mr. Diamond had suddenly become anathema in a country fast running out of patience with its bankers.