Thomas R. Nides, for another, a former top staff member for Thomas S. Foley, a former speaker of the House, and Mickey Kantor, a former United States trade representative, serve in similar capacities to John J. Mack, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley."These guys are doers, not talkers," said Kenneth M. Duberstein, a chief of staff under President Reagan. "They understand power whether it is in the corporate board room or in the White House. They are not so much enablers for getting C.E.O.'s to Washington as they are Sherpas for getting things done."To be sure, it was Mr. Paulson's credibility on Wall Street and his success at Goldman that put him atop President Bush's wish list. And Joshua B. Bolten, the president's new chief of staff and a former Goldman executive himself, played a vital part in assuring Mr. Paulson that he would have a clear and defined policy role.Nonetheless, the behind-the-scenes influence of Mr. Rogers — who served under Mr. Baker when he was chief of staff and secretary of the Treasury in the Reagan administration and secretary of state in the administration of Mr. Bush's father — was such that he is now deliberating a return to Washington to work again for Mr. Paulson, this time, in all likelihood, in the capacity of a senior deputy.Friends of Mr. Rogers, who does not welcome public scrutiny and declined to comment for this article, compare him to the George Smiley character in John Le Carré's spy novels. Mr. Rogers, a slight, retiring man with a preference for tan raincoats, brings the kind of technical staff expertise and, his friends say, the ability to gravitate toward the seat of power in bureaucracies that recall Le Carré's spymaster.More than anything, they say, he understands how to make himself indispensable to powerful people.His experience in Washington dates to the mid-1970's, when he juggled an internship in the Ford White House with his bachelor's degree program at George Washington University.His first connection was to David R. Gergen, who joined the Ford administration as a counselor to the president and later served presidents from Richard M. Nixon to Bill Clinton.Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. Sign Up You will receive emails containing news content , updates and promotions from The New York Times. You may opt-out at any time. You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services. Thank you for subscribing. An error has occurred. Please try again later. View all New York Times newsletters.As Mr. Gergen tells the story, on his first day at work, he asked how he could secure some furniture for his empty office in the Old Executive Office Building. He was told he could call the General Services Administration and wait two months or call Mr. Rogers, then a 19-year-old intern, for quicker results.Advertisement Continue reading the main story"The next day I had a desk, a couch, a TV set and artwork," Mr. Gergen recalled. "I can say that I discovered the phenomenon of John Rogers. I was so impressed with his enterprise that I said, 'Will you come work for me?' "Mr. Rogers's career ascended swiftly. He joined Mr. Baker in 1981 when he was named Mr. Reagan's chief of staff and was on the ground, plugging in phones and hanging pictures on the walls as the new administration set up shop.Over time, his responsibilities increased. He moved with Mr. Baker to the Treasury, where he was an assistant secretary for management and, after a period in private business, returned with Mr. Baker, becoming under secretary of state for management.In 1994, he joined Goldman Sachs, where his ability to make the trains run on time endeared him to superiors.He was made a partner in 2000 and is now a member of the firm's management committee, responsible for external relations as well as the firm's philanthropic activities, in addition to his prime role managing the hectic activities of Mr. Paulson.Mr. Rogers almost always accompanies Mr. Paulson on foreign tours and sits in on his meetings with political and corporate leaders.In some ways, the two are a bit of an odd couple. Mr. Paulson is very much of an alpha male: he will challenge colleagues to wrestling matches and once halted a game of paddle tennis to vomit before resuming play and winning the match. Mr. Rogers is less the competitive athlete, and his hobbies, including historic preservation, tend to be more sedate.They both have a passion for international affairs, and Mr. Rogers's wife, like Mr. Paulson, has had a deep interest in and involvement with China. Though he has worked at Goldman Sachs for 12 years, Mr. Rogers's family lives in Washington and he commutes home each weekend. And while speculation is rife that he will join Mr. Paulson in Washington, others say that he may find it difficult to make a break from Goldman."John loves institutions," Mr. Gergen said. "He loved the White House, the Treasury and the State Department. And now Goldman Sachs."