Victor R. Caivano/The Associated PressPARIS — It may be as difficult to believe for fans as it is for the Formula One teams and the media, but the 2012 season is really, finally, over.It was the longest season ever, with 20 races from March to the end of November, on every continent except Africa and Antarctica. I heard some fans say the season was too long. For many years the norm had been 16 races, which then crept up to 17, 18, 19. . . until we hit 20 this year. Personally, I don’t feel the season was too long. Nascar has twice as many races.The difference is that Nascar’s Sprint Cup races all take place in the United States, while the final third of the F1 season — from the Singapore Grand Prix in late September to the Brazilian Grand Prix last weekend — involved intensive travel from one time zone to another, from one part of the world to another, with no respite.The people who suffered the least through all that work, play and travel were the Formula One drivers. They are the first to admit that.To close out the season, there were three groups of three races one week apart, in different parts of the world — Japan and South Korea; India and Abu Dhabi; Texas and Brazil. Journalists and team members were counting the dead in the last few races — sorry, I mean, the ill and the wounded.At least one journalist was sent home after arriving in Texas and it was discovered that he had contracted malaria on the India trip. Two others were thought to have malaria and were sent to rest in the hospital or their hotels. They did not apparently have malaria or the more worrying dengue fever.PhotoThe word from teams and other support personnel was that the illness level was much higher this season than normal. I was told in Austin that the venerable Dr. Sid Watkins, Formula One’s great safety innovator who died in September, had once said that for a complete physical recovery, the human body needs a week for each time zone it crossed.Formula One personnel did not have that this year. My own travel schedule since early October: two weeks on the road, one week at home in Paris, two weeks on the road, one week at home, two weeks on the road.Am I complaining? No. But there were times when I knew my body was not finding the adequate time it needed to recover.The people who suffered the least through all that work, play and travel were the Formula One drivers. They are the first to admit that. Everything is done to protect their health, to give them sleep and a break. Having said that, Sebastian Vettel, the driver who won the title, spent a fortune to rent a private jet to take him to the final races in order to diminish the physical exhaustion and stress. Looks like it might have worked — his Abu Dhabi and Brazil races were brilliant.Having said that, on Thursday around 2 a.m., I noticed a fellow journalist suggesting that the results of the season might change due to a suspicion that Vettel had made an illegal move in Brazil. At first I thought it was a joke, that the journalist was just having some fun now that the season was over and he, like me, was getting back into the rhythm of daily life.But I found that Ferrari had indeed sent a letter asking the International Automobile Federation, the series’ governing body, to clarify why Vettel had not been penalized for a move that appeared to break the rules. Had Vettel been given the usual 20-second penalty, he would have dropped to eighth position, and the Ferrari driver, Fernando Alonso, would have won the driver’s title.After I read the F.I.A. explanation of what had happened on the track, it was clear that no rule had been broken. And when I saw that the F.I.A. had said all the teams and drivers had been educated in the correct way to deal with the electronic warning lights, it made me suddenly think that perhaps whoever asked for clarification at Ferrari was also just too exhausted from all that travel to have remembered the details.In the end, I learned that the only reason the whole issue came up was because fans had started showing videos on YouTube of the moment that Vettel had passed Jean-Eric Vergne. Ferrari had received thousands of queries from fans on why Vettel had not been penalized. So Ferrari sent an inquiry, the F.I.A. quickly gave an explanation, and Ferrari accepted it.It was interesting to see how the fans and YouTube can affect the climate surrounding the series. It was a season without major controversy — except for the Bahrain race — and the biggest controversy had suddenly come three days after the season ended, pumped up by media and fan sites.Among my articles reviewing the season, the main feature is an overview of the season; my Q&A with Bobby Epstein, the chairman of the Circuit of the Americas, where the U.S. Grand Prix ran in Austin two weeks ago. And this year, I decided to put together a look at the two finalists, Vettel and Fernando Alonso, not only because of their contrasting styles but also because they both deserved the title.