PhotoEnter and you’re drawn to a headless, 300-pound male plaster figure suspended from the ceiling. Continue through a set of white doors and nine headless terra-cotta statues placed side by side on one of two white desks pull your attention away from the small, wood-framed mirror attached to the center of the window.You’re visiting Sigmund Freud’s former treatment room and study in Vienna. This space, where the father of psychoanalysis spent nearly a half century, and since 1971 has been a focal point of the Sigmund Freud Museum, had never housed a special exhibition until Oct. 16, when the New York-based artist Brandt Junceau’s “Vandal” opened.So why now? “One of the museum’s greatest challenges is how to deal with the lack of original material since Freud was forced to escape the terror regime of the Nazis in 1938,” the museum director Monika Pessler wrote in an email. “This crucial time of our history leaves a painful void in our cultural development and significant blanks within the museological structure of Berggasse 19.“Freud’s treatment room and study are spaces of remembrance that are still characterized by the emptiness his writing desk or the icon of his famous couch left,” she said. “Mr. Junceau’s work not only opens up the coincidences that exist between his artistic approach and Freud´s analytic methods to ‘construct memory,’ it also points out what we are missing today.”What is gone, though, is what makes this space an ideal fit for Mr. Junceau’s work.“This site fit perfectly with my work, which has to do with these themes of isolation and a sense of something having been established and then being in some state of ruin — Freud having established this field then being forced into exile,” Mr. Junceau said. “These themes of loss and departure were all built into my work.”These parallels have resonated so well with visitors (more than 2,700 saw “Vandal” in its first week), that the exhibition’s scheduled closing date of Feb. 1 has been extended to Oct. 4, 2015.