It was gorgeous. It was abstract. It was criticized. It was confusing. And it’s back.With its 45- and 90-degree angles and one color per subway line, the 1972 subway map by Massimo Vignelli was divorced from the cityscape, devoid of street or neighborhood names. It was criticized because its water was not blue and its parks were not green. Paul Goldberger called it “a stunningly handsome abstraction” that “bears little relation to the city itself.”Now Men’s Vogue has asked Mr. Vignelli to update his subway map for the May design issue.It was accurate in the same way a poem could describe a playground in March. Descriptive and accurate. But sometimes puzzling. People got lost using it. (The 50th Street and Broadway stop, for example, was east of 8th Avenue instead of west)(The London Underground map has been abstract for years, but perhaps they have a better sense of direction than New Yorkers do, or are less sticklers for geography accuracy since they didn’t have someone superimpose a numeric grid onto their city a few centuries ago.)So the 1979 New York subway map helped things by adding neighborhood names, landmarks and green parks.And the 1998 map, proudly hailed as “The Map,” cheerfully included bus and ferry routes. (One Web site has aggregated the covers of dozens of subway maps, starting from 1924.)And in 2004 the map had to be redrawn all over again, after the rehabilitation of the Manhattan Bridge. It may not be long before the current version looks oh, so last month.The New York City subway is the most complex in the country, more Parma School than Playskool. Anyone trying to capture the 2,058-mile Metropolitan Transportation Authority system with its 378 subway, bus and train lines on one sheet of paper better have plenty of sharp pencils in contrasting colors.But others seem willing to join the fray, voluntarily. Eddie Jabbour, a Westchester marketing director, has created his own map, which is a hybrid of geographical and topographical. The Web site explains some of the cartographic challenges that are special to New York, including:The narrow geography of its principal thoroughfare, Manhattan Island, which has 17 separate lines running up and down midtown alone.A system of many of the subway lines running local, then express, then back to local along their route.Its history of three separate and competing subway systems that were poorly coordinated to work as a whole system.Mr. Vignelli’s new map incorporates a Generation X lifetime of changes, particularly to Lower Manhattan — tenants were still moving into the World Trade Center when his first version was completed, and the current one must draw around the hole the buildings left behind. It also includes a jarring, lovely, perfect circle around Kennedy International Airport.Men’s Vogue is selling 500 limited edition prints of the map for $299 (including shipping and handling), with profits going to Green Worker Cooperatives, a group working on building an alternative green economy in the South Bronx.What’s your favorite subway map? What do you miss about the old ones and what would you like different in the current one? And which one got you the most lost ever?