Razzi follows Casper everywhere. This is to be expected. Casper is 14 years old, Razzi only 4 months.So when their owner, Giovanni Schirripa, left the gate open after feeding them Wednesday morning, Casper, followed by Razzi, took off down Victory Boulevard in the semi-bucolic Staten Island neighborhood of Travis and joined the annals of the city’s legendary animal fugitives.To the wayward zoo peacocks and peahens and the coyote of the West Side Highway bike path, the swimming deer of Bay Ridge, the rampaging wild turkeys and the whole series of escaped veal calves and other slaughterhouse-bound livestock, you may add two more.Casper the pony. And Razzi the zebra.Around 9:20 a.m., a man named Zachary Osher looked out the window of his store, Metropolitan Drape and Blind, a quarter-mile south on Victory Boulevard, and saw two hoofed animals trot by.“They ran past me, and then they made a loop around the parking lot,” Mr. Osher said. “I thought they were circus animals.” Like any quick-thinking citizen, he grabbed his iPhone and ran out shooting.“They came around and they were galloping,” he said. “The pony was in the lead, and the zebra was behind.”The unlikely pair dodged traffic on the busy street and exited the frame, pursued, Mr. Osher said, by men in dark suits carrying lassos.Mr. Osher sent his video to The Staten Island Advance and went back to work.The police, meanwhile, were on the case. By 10 a.m., a spokesman said, they had apprehended the animals a couple of blocks south of Mr. Osher’s store and returned them to Mr. Schirripa’s menagerie at Victory Boulevard and Travis Avenue.Mr. Schirripa, 31, said it happened differently. He said he told people to stop chasing the zebra and coaxed him with food. “I got the food and he walks right up to me,” Mr. Schirripa said, adding that no lassos were involved. Mr. Schirripa is getting to be an old hand at this sort of thing – he said it was Casper’s third escape.PhotoBy Wednesday evening, in any case, Razzi and Casper were back palling around in their pen, a fenced area behind the two-story house that Mr. Schirripa shares with his parents. (Razzi and Casper stay in a barn that looks like it was once a single-car garage.)Mr. Schirripa said he bought Razzi – short for Paparazzi — for $6,000 a couple of months ago from a breeder in Wisconsin, for a petting zoo he ran at an Octoberfest event for the Staten Island Boys Football League, which has its headquarters nearby.“I figured I’d get something a little different,” he said.For the petting zoo, Mr. Schirripa rented a llama, two alpacas, two cows, six pigs, and three ducks. But the zebra was for keeps.“I always wanted a zebra, ‘cause nobody else has one,” he said, adding that he loved exotics and owned other animals whose species he would not mention.Razzi has turned out to be a handful.“It’s a lot harder than I thought,” said Mr. Schirripa (who was photographed a couple of weeks ago walking Razzi down Travis Avenue). “He’s a baby, he’s very skittish around a lot of people, but he’s getting better now.”Mr. Schirripa said he planned to move Razzi to another property, in Phillipsburg, N.J., where he keeps several horses, after Christmas.Razzi might have to move sooner than that. Only zoos or petting zoos are allowed to keep zebras in New York City, the Health Department said. While Mr. Schirripa said he had a permit for the zoo at the Octoberfest, a health department spokeswoman, Chanel Caraway, said in an e-mail, “The Health Department has no record of a permit for a petting zoo” at Mr. Schirripa’s address.“Health inspectors are investigating,” she added, “and will make sure appropriate measures are taken once the circumstances are fully evaluated.”