Michael Appleton for The New York TimesDavid Ranta walked out of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn on Thursday a free man, after spending more than two decades in a maximum-security prison for a crime he almost certainly did not commit.Mr. Ranta, who was convicted in 1991 of one of New York City’s most notorious murders, only to spend years fighting to prove his innocence, was escorted by guards into a courtroom. His hands were bound in handcuffs, linked by a chain to a brown leather belt around his waist.Justice Miriam Cyrulnik listened to brief statements from the defense lawyer, Pierre Sussman, and from the office of Charles J. Hynes, the Brooklyn district attorney. Then she fixed her eyes on Mr. Ranta, a man of modest stature, his hair thin and graying, his mouth playing with an uncertain smile.“To say that I’m sorry for what you have endured will be an understatement and grossly inadequate, but I say it to you anyway,” she said to him softly, her eyes red-rimmed. “Sir, you are a free man.”With that, more than a dozen relatives and friends in the benches behind him broke into applause and sobs. Mr. Ranta turned to them, as guards unshackled him.Mr. Ranta, who had been a printer with a history of drug addiction and small-time thievery, was convicted of murdering Chaskel Werzberger, a prominent Satmar rabbi, in a botched robbery in February 1990. That case disintegrated over the years, as witnesses recanted testimony and it emerged that police detectives had coached a witness and broken many rules.He emerged from the courtroom into the hallway, appearing a bit dazed. “I’m overwhelmed,” he all but whispered. “Right now, I feel like I’m under water, swimming.”John P. O’Mara, who oversees Mr. Hynes’s Conviction Integrity Unit, which re-examined this case, was taciturn. He offered no regrets, noting that he was not involved in the original case. And he suggested, without offering evidence, that Mr. Ranta still might have committed the crime.Reporters asked him about Detective Louis Scarcella, who broke many rules in that long-ago case and played a key role in Mr. Ranta’s flawed conviction. Mr. O’Mara replied that Detective Scarcella, now retired, had been one of the busiest detectives in the Brooklyn North area.Asked if that was not reason in itself to revisit those cases, Mr. O’Mara said his unit examined only cases referred to it. It does not, he said, independently comb through old cases.Minutes later, Mr. Ranta took the escalator to the lobby, and emerged into the chill gray of Brooklyn. Over his shoulder he hauled a purple fish-net rucksack, containing all of this 58-year-old man’s worldly belongings.