Thousands of city parents have been anxiously checking their mailboxes since Monday to see whether their four- and five-year-olds have qualified for the city’s sought-after gifted and talented programs.The Department of Education said the letters were mailed on Friday, but it appears many parents have not gotten their letters yet. Normally, mail from within the city arrives within two or three business days.“I’ve been joking with parents that maybe they were mailed from London, and they will come in with volcanic ash on them,” said Robin Aronow, an educational consultant who helps parents get their children into selective schools.Children took a standardized test known as the Olsat to qualify for the gifted programs. They must score in the 90th percentile to get into programs in their school district, and in the 97th percentile to qualify for the citywide programs, though in reality, there are generally only enough citywide spots for higher-scoring students.An online system has been set up for parents to check their scores and review their child’s results, but some parents were still awaiting their personal identification number to access the system, which is also in the mail. Others who had PINs found they didn’t work until this morning.Some parents registered with the city’s online enrollment system have received e-mail messages — or two conflicting e-mail messages — letting them know their results. Other parents have had success calling the student enrollment hot line at 718-935-2009.“It’s been a bit of a mess,” said Bige Doruk, whose organization, Bright Kids NYC, tutored some 200 children before the test.For parents stuck on public kindergarten waitlists for popular schools, the delay was even more stressful. (To gauge the anxiety level, check out the 250+ comments from parents on the popular blog insideschools.org)Parents trying to get into Public School 290 on the Upper East Side, where 103 kindergartners are on the waitlist and 92 children were admitted, plan to confront education officials at a public meeting at 6 p.m. on Wednesday at the Wagner Middle School on East 76th Street, according to a notice sent out by parents.“The crisis has worsened with the failure of the D.O.E. to release gifted and talented test scores in time for parents to book tours of schools for which they qualify,” the notice said.In other admissions news, after delaying a release of the information for weeks, the city said Wednesday that 6,694 eighth graders, or roughly eight percent, were not matched to any high school in the first round of high school admissions. Last year, 7,455 students, or roughly seven percent, didn’t get initial admissions offers.The students have been entered into a supplementary admissions round, and must select a school from among those with open seats by April 29. Some top high schools, including Bard and Millennium in Manhattan and Leon M. Goldstein in Brooklyn, have a number of open seats but are not included in the supplementary round; education officials said children who had ranked those schools should appeal for reconsideration.A total of 80,412 eighth-grade students applied for high school admission this year, and 77 percent received one of their top three choices, officials said. Students were able to list up to 12 choices on their admissions forms.