MTR Corp.Not much has been heard from Jay H. Walder, the former chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, since he resigned abruptly last year to take over the sleek and generously financed rail system of Hong Kong.But on Tuesday, his first formal day at the new job, Mr. Walder resurfaced to weigh in on the state of New York City’s mass transit. His prognosis was oddly uneven: grim and overly optimistic in equal parts.“New York, when I arrived there, was in a financial crisis,” Mr. Walder said at a news conference in Hong Kong. “The system simply did not have enough money to continue to operate. The assets were not being renewed. And the infrastructure was in terrible condition.”“What I did,” Mr. Walder added, “was to be able to right that financial basis and to be able to put the system back on firm financial footing.”Whether this statement can be considered accurate may depend on one’s definition of the word “firm.”It is true that Mr. Walder, a former management consultant, aggressively cut costs at the transportation authority. He laid off workers, renegotiated contracts, and consolidated large parts of the bureaucracy, wringing more than $500 million in annual costs out of a notoriously bloated budget.But the authority’s current financial footing may be less sound than advertised.Mr. Walder announced his departure for Hong Kong days after the authority unveiled a capital plan dependent on millions of dollars in still-to-be-approved federal grants. The capital budget, which pays for maintenance and expansion, is still underfunded by $10 billion.Meanwhile, the 2012 operating budget is held together by spit and glue: planners admitted last month that their balance sheet included $35 million in savings that had not yet been found. The budget also assumes that transit workers will go without raises for three years, under a contract that has yet to be negotiated.It is not unusual for high-ranking executives to garnish their accomplishments, and Mr. Walder, who is starting a new job on a new continent, may simply have been paraphrasing his work. (A clearer explanation remained elusive on Tuesday, as representatives of Mr. Walder’s new company, MTR Corporation, could not be reached.)But Mr. Walder, whose new perch as chief executive of MTR comes with a salary worth at least three times his compensation in New York, made it clear that he was excited about his new charge.“I think we have a very different situation here,” Mr. Walder said, of Hong Kong’s mass transit system. “We have a first-class railway. We have a sustainable financial model that is supporting that railway. And I think the people of Hong Kong are benefiting tremendously from what we have.”Mr. Walder added: “I don’t think it’s the same situation as what you have in New York.”Indeed. MTR, which earns millions of dollars from real estate developments along its rail lines, recently said it would increase train service during the holidays to meet customer demand.In New York, the transportation authority, which recently lost $325 million in state financing after Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo eliminated part of a payroll tax, ran fewer peak-hour trains between Christmas and New Year’sas part of a program to save about $200,000 a year.Mr. Walder, in a company press release this week, said he would be focused on expanding business opportunities for MTR.“There’s no standing still,” he wrote. “Companies cannot continue to succeed if they stand still.”