Profiling Alexander Wang was an interesting experience for me because, as much as anything, it made me rethink my assumptions about the one designer/two brand thing, as well as, to a certain extent, about Mr. Wang.New York Fashion Week Coverage from in and around the New York shows.While I retain a pretty healthy skepticism about the situation — there’s a difference between being able to have that many ideas and having that many good ideas, and I do think fashion ideas in general need to marinate more than they currently can to really be reshaped — I accept that, beyond the purely aesthetic, it has some real upsides. To wit:1. It is a positive by-product of the social media evolution that has produced an attention deficit disorder generation (it channels their creativity);2. It is a good solution to the current brand focus that says a house must have a very strict aesthetic identity so that products can be easily identified by consumers, which may make them sell better but imposes limits on designers;3. It is, as Michael Kors told me, an opportunity for learning about how to run a business, perhaps in a different way than you run your own business, that you can’t get anywhere else.We in fashion can get pretty tied up in knots about the clothes thing, but the truth is that most fashion designers these days are also brand managers and businesspeople, and at the moment we are holding them to old-fashioned measuring sticks. They have — this is fashion, after all — moved on.This is also, I think, why so many of us on the benches struggled at first with the idea of Mr. Wang at Balenciaga (me, mea culpa, as much as anyone, as readers of past reviews will know).To me, he was an amazing businessman — he built a $100 million company in seven years. But he was also someone who picked up on a certain very contemporary (in both meanings of the term) zeitgeist and reflected it back sartorially with enormous energy and good humor, rather than someone who redefined female identity.By contrast, Balenciaga as a concept was, to me, all about redefining female identity with enormous rigor over time. It was about exactly what does not seem to happen in fashion anymore, at least on the runway, which is the working and reworking and re-reworking of an idea until it is distilled to its purest form.But I have come to wonder if perhaps we were focusing on the wrong thing. The idea Mr. Wang is reworking is what a designer is, not necessarily what products he makes.And here’s the thing: He, and we, are not done yet.