PhotoThe Time magazine “100 Most Influential People” list is out, and there are four fashion names on it (or two, and two kind-of-fashion names): Alexander Wang, under artists; Diane von Furstenberg, under icons; and Kim Kardashian and Kanye West, under titans.I can’t really quibble with the last three — Ms. Kardashian’s social media presence is titanic, as is Mr. West’s personal brand (and his perception of it), and Ms. von Furstenberg not only has her own reality TV show but also has her own humanitarian awards, to be given out at the United Nations next week. But I am struck by the fact that Mr. Wang is the only creative director listed.The implication: He is the single most influential designer in the world. Is this true?I know these kinds of lists are ridiculously subjective, but at the same time, in a world where “Top Ten X’s” have become ubiquitous thanks to social media, the Time 100 still ranks as one of the grandfathers of the form. So it’s worth examining its choices.It’s hard to know how the people at Time chose their list, as the methodology explanation doesn’t actually explain much at all, but the model Karlie Kloss wrote Mr. Wang’s entry, which is as close to a justification for their thinking as we are going to get. To paraphrase: “He’s cool.”Is that enough?I don’t doubt that Mr. Wang is talented, and the success of his name-brand company unquestionably helped draw attention to the rise of contemporary. He is, as I wrote last year, at the forefront of a new wave of young designers who bridge two brands. Those are trends, and arguably he helped create them, though they have nothing to do with cool.But while he embodies two movements in the business, I don’t think he created them: It was François-Henri Pinault who brought him to Balenciaga, and while he was part of the contemporary wave, he didn’t kick-start it by himself. Sure, he did that H&M thing, which was a big success, but other designers have had very successful collaborations with H&M.And yes, he’s in a Kanye West song (“New Slaves“). But “Versace” is the actual title, not to mention many of the lyrics, of a different song (Migos’s “Versace”), so that may not be the best rationale.It seems to me that to be really influential (in fashion and beyond, but let’s stick to fashion here), you need to have changed something: a silhouette, a way of doing business.By that measuring stick, I would think Hedi Slimane, who effectively circumvented the fashion news media and led to an entire class of aggregating designers, might qualify as more influential (not only are his rock-thrift clothes being widely imitated at lower price points, so is his marketing strategy); ditto Nicolas Ghesquière and Phoebe Philo of Céline, two more designers who most “inspire” main-street brands.And that doesn’t even begin to get into such figures as Rei Kawakubo, Azzedine Alaïa and Karl Lagerfeld, who have come to embody specific approaches to both the business of fashion as well as to women’s bodies.Or, for that matter, people like Stefan Persson, H&M’s owner, who has changed the way we shop and think about clothes in a pretty essential way.What Mr. Wang represents, however, which these names do not, is a certain kind of cheerfulness and lack of neuroses: He bounds down the runway! He is having fun! He makes fashion look like a neat job.And maybe this is where his influence really lies, in that he may persuade kids to go into the sector. Maybe he’s an accessible role model, changing the image of what a fashion designer is. Maybe that qualifies.What do you think?