PhotoFans of “Hedwig and the Angry Inch” gave the show a nice box-office bump in its final week, boosting its grosses as the show ended a 76-week run on Broadway and prepared to start a tour in San Francisco.“Mamma Mia!”, which concluded a 14-year run on Broadway with a raucous performance on Saturday night, did not see a similar last-week bounce, dipping at the box office in its final days.Over all, the week that ended Sept. 13 was a down one for Broadway — not a big surprise, because September is generally a relatively quiet month for theaters. “Hamilton” retained its new position as the second-highest-grossing show on Broadway, behind “The Lion King.” And a revival of “Spring Awakening,” using both deaf and hearing actors, began performances at the Brooks Atkinson Theater; it grossed a modest $448,879 and played to 83 percent capacity houses in its first eight performances.The two shows that closed over the weekend, “Hedwig” and “Mamma Mia!”, were both hits, but their ticket sales had slowed over time, prompting their producers to decide to end their Broadway runs. But both shows both retain strong brands and are expected to continue to make significant money around the world.“Hedwig,” which won the 2014 Tony Award for best musical revival, closed Sunday at the Belasco Theater; its final lead performer, Taye Diggs, was joined by two of his predecessors, Neil Patrick Harris and Darren Criss, for the celebration. The show, with a book by John Cameron Mitchell, music and lyrics by Stephen Trask, and a lead producer in David Binder, has grossed more than $50 million on Broadway; it will not only start a national tour next month but is also planning productions in London and in Australia.“Hedwig” grossed $625,159 in its final week, the highest since Mr. Diggs assumed the title role.“Mamma Mia,” which opened in the fall of 2001, was more beloved by audiences than critics; it continues to play in London, where it began, and on the road. The show, a jukebox musical made up of Abba songs, has a book by Catherine Johnson and music and lyrics by Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus; the lead producer was Judy Craymer. The show grossed more than $600 million on Broadway; in its final week, it brought in $886,681, down slightly from most weeks this summer, but significantly above its performance through much of last winter, which preceded the decision to close.“It takes a lot of courage to put a show on Broadway,” Ms. Craymer said at the final curtain call. “But I think it takes even more courage to close a show that is so loved by so many people.”