South by SouthwestAUSTIN, Tex. — This year, eight films are vying for South by Southwest’s narrative prize. Below is a look at three of those films, with comments from their directors on how they aimed for something different in the cinematic approaches.Gimme the Loot“Gimme the Loot” is the first feature film from the New York filmmaker Adam Leon. It follows two Bronx teenagers with a love for graffiti writing on an urban adventure throughout the city. For the film’s shooting locations, Mr. Leon said “we wanted to do hits, B-sides and rarities,” with some scenes in iconic New York City locations, and others in places that have been mostly unexplored on the big screen.“We were in 50 locations,” he said. “We wanted to be all over the city, in a rich person’s home, in a bodega, in the middle of Queens in the rain. We wanted to be this kind of low-budget epic.”Although the film contains very little graffiti writing, Mr. Leon wanted to make sure the portrayal of graffiti culture was accurate. “We brought on this guy called SP1, who’s kind of a legendary graffiti writer from the ’80s, and he was our graffiti adviser,” he said. “We did graffiti class for months, where we would learn to write and learn about the culture, history and language.”Los ChidosSouth by SouthwestOn the surface, “Los Chidos” is about a Mexican family that runs a tire repair shop and encounter an American in need of assistance. The family members commit a series of outrageous and sometimes offensive acts against one another and their U.S. visitor that might even make John Waters blush. But the film’s director, Omar Rodriguez Lopez, said it is meant to be seen more as symbolism, as a critique of the way misogyny, homophobia and racism have been passed down through cultures.Mr. Lopez said he didn’t grow up in a misogynistic household, but when he went to school, he became very aware of the kind of language used by his peers. “It was the vernacular of the exploiter rather than the exploited,” he said. “The cycle of oppressive language is one of the strongest themes of the film, if people can stay in the seat long enough, or think about it long enough to care.”The film, with its carnival of politically incorrect acts, is likely to divide audiences, but is also likely to get a conversation going.StarletSouth by SouthwestSean Baker’s drama “Starlet” has at its center one of the most unlikely of friendships — between a 21-year-old adult film actress (Dree Hemingway) and an 85 year-old woman (Besedka Johnson) in the San Fernando Valley. The film bounces between the disparate worlds of its two women, seeking out common ground between the two.“I love unlikely friendship stories,” said Mr. Baker. “I find it always fascinating when two people, no matter who they are, come together and connect. And it’s always a little more interesting when you would assume these two people wouldn’t connect.”The premise could have gone many different directions, from a sex comedy to a commercial buddy movie, but the film Mr. Baker made doesn’t fit into easy categories and doesn’t offer Hollywood answers.“I didn’t want to go where the audience might think I’m going with it,” he said. “One of the things that I wanted to explore was breaking those judgments that people bring into any situations, especially with the adult film world.”