PhotoSigmund Freud, originator of psychoanalysis and considered by many as the greatest single influence on the thought of the twentieth century, died at his home in Hampstead, England, early yesterday morning at the age of eighty-three. He had been in poor health since leaving Vienna, after the 1938 Anschluss, and taking up his residence in England. In September last year, he had undergone a serious operation.Freud had been simultaneously admired and ridiculed, the subject of extravagant hero worship and of scathing attacks, and his system of psychoanalysis aroused one of the greatest intellectual controversies of the present century. He created not only a new attitude toward psychology, a new method of healing, but also a novel approach to human conduct in general.Sigmund Freud was born May 6, 1856, in Freiberg, Moravia, of poor Jewish parents who moved to Vienna when he was four. He studied medicine at Vienna University, not because he felt particulary inclined toward that science, but, as he explained himself, because he was greatly attracted to Darwin’s theories, which had just become popular in the ’70s, and because medicine seemed to offer the best approach to the new science.PhotoIn his studies he soon became attracted by psychiatric problems. In 1881 he entered Vienna’s Municipal Hospital, where he specialised in nervous diseases. He then came to Paris for supplementary studies, returning to Vienna in 1886, when he married Mathilde Berneis, of Hamburg.For a short time, Freud was a practicing nerve specialist and in this capacity discovered, together with his colleague Joseph Breuer, that the state of hypnosis permitted extremely valuable diagnostic conclusions as to the root of the patient’s ailment. This was the starting point of psychoanalysis.In the last decade of the nineteenth century Freud had practically no followers. The paramount importance attributed by the Viennese specialist to sexual motives in the domain of the subconscious was denied by the majority of scientists and ridiculed by the layman. With the passage of years, however, he gained world-wide scientific recognition. Today the International Psychoanalitic Society, based on his findings, has branches in most of the capitals of the world. — New York Herald Tribune, European Edition, Sept. 25, 1939