PhotoPresident Obama plans to meet at the White House on Friday with the Dalai Lama, a visit that drew a swift rebuke from the Chinese government, which has tried to diminish the influence of the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader and his efforts to promote the autonomy of Tibet.The administration portrayed the visit as part of an effort to promote a “middle way” solution to the fate of Tibet, where China has been trying to tamp down a stubborn movement for greater autonomy that has involved the self-immolation of more than 125 Tibetans, mostly monks and nuns, since 2008.“The president will meet with the Dalai Lama in his capacity as an internationally respected religious and cultural leader,” said a statement issued late Thursday by Caitlin Hayden, a National Security Council spokeswoman.“The United States supports the Dalai Lama’s ‘middle way’ approach of neither assimilation nor independence for Tibetans in China,” Ms. Hayden said. “We will continue to urge the Chinese government to resume dialogue with the Dalai Lama or his representatives, without preconditions, as a means to reduce tensions.”But the Chinese Foreign Ministry criticized the planned visit just hours after it was announced, with a spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, urging that the meeting be canceled and calling it a “crude interference in China’s domestic affairs.” She said holding it would “seriously damage” already strained ties between China and the United States.The Chinese government considers the Tibetan spiritual leader a separatist, and bans open displays of his photograph in Tibet. In an article published in November, the top Communist Party official in Tibet signaled how China was planning to clamp down on the Dalai Lama’s ability to get his message out.“Strike hard against the reactionary propaganda,” Chen Quanguo, the party chief in Tibet, wrote in the party journal Qiushi. He said the government would confiscate illegal satellite dishes, heighten monitoring of online content and take other measures to prevent the dissemination of the Dalai Lama’s message in areas with Tibetan populations so that “the voice and image of the enemy forces and the Dalai clique are neither seen nor heard.”The Dalai Lama was also in Washington for a meeting Thursday with the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative organization. In a possible reflection of the political sensitivities of the meeting with Mr. Obama, it will not take place in the Oval Office, but rather in the White House’s map room.The White House visit comes as Washington’s relations with Beijing have already been strained by territorial disputes between China and key American allies, including Japan, South Korea and the Philippines, involving competing claims in the South China Sea and East China Sea.In 2009, Mr. Obama declined to meet with the Dalai Lama before a planned trip to China, a decision that was widely criticized. However, he did meet him after his return. This time, the meeting will occur before Mr. Obama’s April trip to Asia, when he will visit American allies in a trip that will bypass China.In the Foreign Ministry statement, Ms. Hua accused the United States of meddling in China’s internal affairs by going ahead with the visit.“It must be pointed out that Tibetan affairs are purely a domestic matter of China, and no foreign country has the right to meddle,” she said. “The Dalai is a political exile who for a long time has wielded the banner of religion to engage in anti-China separatist activities.”Chris Buckley contributed reporting.