PhotoOn a humid summer night in Beijing, a group made up mainly of retirees gathered in front of one of Beijing’s gleaming malls to remember the past through song and dance — fake guns in tow.The rapt audience — grandmothers dangling babies on their hips, sweat-stained migrant workers and two city sanitation workers — watched silently as the amateur dance troupe ran through its choreographed numbers seamlessly. Five men in sleeveless shirts banged on drums from the sidelines as speakers blasted out revolutionary-era songs.Microphone in one hand and a cigarette in the other, the M.C. announced the next number with bravado: “Defeat the Japanese Devils!” A Chinese man dressed as a World War II-era Japanese soldier took center stage with a toy gun that lit up upon firing. Knock-kneed and half bent, he was no match for the roughly dozen women portraying Chinese soldiers who marched in, toy rifles held high above their heads.The dance then ended with the defeated Japanese soldier being marched offstage, as the dancers moved seamlessly to their next routine, another patriotic number accompanied by a man waving a large Chinese flag.Amateur dance groups such as this one, in front of the Raffles City Mall in Dongzhimen, have been a popular urban pastime among retirees in China for years. They vary in style, performing everything from from ballroom-infused exercises to simple grapevine dance moves to patriotic fare.But not everyone is a fan. Across China there have been various reports of local residents getting fed up with the noisy practice, sometimes leading to physical confrontations.But the audience on Wednesday looked entertained. Certainly, the group that performed appeared more organized than most. Their routines were carefully choreographed, and the dancers moved enthusiastically to the music despite the stifling heat, changing costumes several times and using props. A male dancer said that they had been gathering in front of the mall to dance for “years.”“This place is good because it’s not a residential area,” he said.Most performers are retired, but some still have day jobs. The leader of the group, for instance, is a middle-aged female accountant who sometimes sings a live accompaniment.Of the group’s various numbers, the one invoking the Sino-Japanese war has drawn the greatest spotlight from the Chinese state media. Photos of the gun-toting ladies have made the rounds of Chinese news portals and state media outlets including Xinhua and China News Service.The routine may be fake, but the tensions it captures are very real, fueled by a state media machine that ensures that accounts of Japanese war crimes in China are never far from the public’s mind. On television, dramas focusing on the Japanese occupation of China in the1930s and 1940s are popular and easily get the green light from censors.The dances are drawing attention as tensions between China and Japan fester over territorial claims to islands in the East China Sea. Those tensions have only exacerbated longstanding historical grievances: China believes that Japanese leaders have failed to fully atone for atrocities committed in their invasion of China, while Japan is moving toward a more militaristic posture as it watches China’s rise.A male member of the dance troupe played down the significance of the “anti-Japanese” dance on Wednesday, saying the group was “just having fun.” But the group has not been afraid to tap into the surge of nationalism focusing on the disputed islands in the East China Sea. The Chinese news portal Netease recently snapped photos of another male troupe member standing in the middle of the dancers in the midst of a routine, holding up a sign that read, “The Diaoyu Islands belong to China.”