PhotoA state-owned company that raises bears to extract bile for use in traditional Chinese medicine says it will hand over 130 bears to an animal rights group, and the farm where they were raised will be turned into a rehab center. The move marks a major success in the campaign to end the practice of bear-bile farming, which animal rights campaigners call cruel and abusive.PhotoThe move came after a year of negotiation between Flower World, a state-owned horticulture and landscaping company in Nanning, in the southern region of Guangxi, and Animals Asia Foundation, a nonprofit organization based in Hong Kong.“This negotiation is a result of years of growing awareness and increased opposition, with the bear farmer showing the moral integrity to do the right thing,” Jill Robinson, the founder and chief executive of Animals Asia, said when announcing the plan in Beijing on Tuesday.The plan to convert the bear farm into a rescue center is set to cost Animals Asia $5 million. That includes transportation of 28 bears to Animals Asia’s facility in the southern city of Chengdu for medical treatment in early May, the renovation of the buildings on the farm for 102 bears and about three years of care for the animals.“As we enter into this agreement with a state-invested business, we also welcome the opportunity to work with government,” said Toby Zhang, director of external affairs at Animals Asia China.Flower World began its bear farm in 2008, but began to reconsider the project after three years of financial losses, said the Flower World general manager, Yan Shaohong.The cost to build the farm was about 9 million renminbi, or $1.5 million, Mr. Yan said. After a Chinese traditional remedies manufacturer, Guizhentang Pharmaceutical, was heavily criticized for its bile business, Flower World started to look for a door out, he said.In 2011, the Fujian Province-based Guizhentang Pharmaceutical applied for listing on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, placing its bear-bile farming practices under public scrutiny. Images released by organizations including Animals Asia of caged bears, some with tubes stuck in their abdomen to extract bile, angered the public.Guizhentang officials defended themselves, saying they had perfected the bear-milking technique so that no more permanent belly tubes were required and that the bears were in no pain.Trying to head off a public relations crisis for China’s bear-bile industry, the China Association of Traditional Chinese Medicine, an interest group of which Guizhentang is a member, came to the company’s defense. The testimony of the association’s director, Fang Shuting, at a 2012 news conference, that bile extraction was “easy and painless, like turning on tap water” only lowered public opinion of the practice.Mr. Fang accused Animals Asia of plotting with “foreign interests” to “undermine the traditional Chinese medicine” by starving the industry of its supply.If bear farms are shut down, Mr. Fang’s association said in a statement in early 2012, “153 drugs with bear bile for their active ingredient will be gone, 183 pharmaceutical companies will lose a market worth more than 10 billion renminbi a year, and tens of thousands of jobs will be lost as well.”Amid continuing criticism, Guizhentang dropped its plan for an initial public offering last summer.As a state-owned company, Flower World received the blessing of the municipal landscaping bureau of Nanning for its decision to quit the bear-farming business. But speaking at the Beijing news conference, Mr. Yan declined to say whether the government was showing decreasing interest in supporting the bile industry.Under the terms of the deal, Animals Asia will retain about 15 Flower World employees who work on the farm. All the workers have been promised a raise and training sessions provided by Animals Asia at its Chengdu center, Mr. Yan said.The bears on the Flower World farm are sick from earlier extractions as well as confinement in small cages, poor diets and a lack of veterinary care, according to an Animals Asia statement. Health issues include blindness, dental problems and untreated wounds, the statement said.“While it seems painless, the bears must have inner damage and inflammation. Otherwise why do they require so many antibiotics?” Mr. Yan said.Mr. Zhang called bear farming “a waning industry” that “is not hard to phase out,” and said his colleagues believe this new partnership points to a way out for those involved.Experts say China has about 10,000 captive bears that yield about 30 tons of powdered bile a year.With government support, “we can begin the blueprint of a plan that, for the first time ever, sees the potential of farms to freedom for thousands of bears here in China,” Ms. Robinson said.