PhotoIn a country where standoffs between local governments and residents over land seizures and forced evictions regularly make headlines, one man’s attempt to save his property by drawing parallels between his plight and a sovereignty dispute between China and Japan has drawn amused comment online.Photos of a demolition site in Ganzhou, in the eastern province of Jiangxi, that have been circulating in recent days show a tall stone plaque with carved gold characters declaring: “The Diaoyu Islands Belong to China. This House Belongs to Xie Taiyang.”Diaoyu is the Chinese name for the group of islands in the East China Sea called the Senkaku in Japan, and they are at the heart of a tense territorial dispute between the two countries. The conflict reignited last year after the Japanese government purchased the islands from their private owner, becoming a lightning rod for nationalism in China and a hot topic of discussion online.Although China and Japan continue to spar verbally over the islands, Mr. Xie’s house had already been demolished by the time the photos were taken last week, the photographer told the Guangzhou-based newspaper Southern Metropolis Daily. Internet users in China were quick to chime in.“The Japanese did it!” one Guangzhou-based commenter quipped, in response to the article posted on the paper’s official Sina Weibo account.“Fortunately, the Diaoyu Islands have at least been protected,” a commenter from Hunan Province said.The Chinese government recently announced an “air defense identification zone” in the East China Sea that encompasses airspace over the disputed islands, a move the Japanese government has protested.“It sounds like the demolition team is tougher than the Self-Defense Forces!” a Guangzhou resident commented on a Phoenix News reposting of the article about Mr. Xie, referring to the military forces of Japan.The circumstances under which Mr. Xie ultimately lost his house are unclear, whether he eventually surrendered the fight in return for a monetary settlement or was forcibly evicted.As real estate prices in China continue to soar, local governments are eager to sell off land to property developers as a way of raising revenue. But first, existing residents have to be removed. Many people find that the land where they have been living for years has suddenly become a hot acquisition target. When the government orders them to move, many accept financial compensation and comply, but many others resist. The results can sometimes be deadly. Sometimes residents fashion weapons to defend their homes. The most desperate protest by killing themselves. At least 39 farmers are estimated to have set themselves on fire over the past five years to protest forced land expropriation.In the photos, the stone plaque still stands on a mound of yellow earth, alone in what appears to be an open field of dirt and sparse bush, while in the distance skyscrapers loom tall, in a hint of what is to come. But it is unlikely to remain, as the Ganzhou city government pushes through a five-year development plan to transform the area into a business and cultural center.