PhotoFor the first time, the quota for visas available to Chinese investors hoping to obtain permanent residency status in the United States has been filled before the end of the fiscal year, a United States State Department official has announced.The investor-immigration program, which was created by Congress in 1990 and is also known as EB-5, is intended to benefit the American economy through job creation and capital investment by foreign investors. Each year, 10,000 visas are allocated to foreigners who invest at least $500,000 in American businesses and create or preserve at least 10 domestic jobs. Most of the investments that are made through the program are pooled through regional centers in the United States and are used to finance major development projects.The program, which has raised billions of dollars for American businesses over the years, has seen a rapid rise in participation among Chinese investors, with Chinese accounting for more than 80 percent of the visas allocated this year.But as of this week, the EB-5 visas are unavailable to Chinese applicants for the remainder of the fiscal year, Charles Oppenheim, chief of the State Department’s Immigrant Visa Control and Reporting Division, said at an EB-5 conference in Chicago on Saturday. The 10,000-visa quota will be reset at the beginning of the new fiscal year, on Oct. 1.“We knew it was coming, but it’s absolutely a shock,” Michael Gibson, an EB-5 consultant who runs the website eb5news.com, said of the announcement during a telephone interview.The EB-5 program has come to be viewed by many Chinese investors as a fast track to permanent residency and therefore to educational and lifestyle opportunities not readily available in China. That demand, combined with rising incomes, has helped spawn an entire industry in China geared toward helping — or, occasionally, scamming — potential investors in China by finding suitable projects.“It’s bad news for Chinese investors, very bad news for the large-scale projects that have depended on these investors and extremely bad news for the Chinese agents that profit enormously from promoting these projects,” said Mr. Gibson, who also raised the concern that if Congress did not act to enlarge the quota, the backlog of applicants would only continue to grow.In 2003, the United States government issued 65 EB-5 visas to applicants from all countries. The current backlog amounts to 10,375 applications.By law, no single country can be issued more than 7 percent of the visas available in any given year. But with demand for EB-5 visas in China far exceeding that in any other country, the State Department has allowed visa slots unclaimed by citizens from other countries to be added to China’s allotment.One reason for the recent surge in demand for EB-5 visas from China, experts say, has to do with the scrapping of the Canadian investor immigration program earlier this year. That program, which required only a five-year, interest-free loan to the government of between $400,000 and $800,000, as well as proof of a net worth of 1.6 million Canadian dollars, was widely viewed by potential investors as one of the easiest routes to gaining permanent residency abroad and was particularly popular among Chinese.But earlier this year, many of the applicants to the program, mostly Chinese, were sent into a panic when the Canadian authorities announced that they were canceling the program, along with its backlog of applications, after it came under heavy criticism from many Canadians uncomfortable with the idea of selling residency. As a result, industry experts say, many of the potential applicants to the Canadian program, still wanting to go to North America, have now turned to the United States.The EB-5 program, for its part, has attracted critics within the United States. While some question whether it has actually benefited the American economy, others have focused on the many reports of loose oversight by the government and of risky investments presented as safe and guaranteed to investors.In perhaps the biggest scandal to affect the program, last year the Securities and Exchange Commission issued a record $14 million whistle-blower award for a tip about a Chicago-based EB-5 scheme in which a 30-year-old man duped nearly 300 investors, mostly Chinese, into paying more than $147 million for a plan to build a hotel and conference center in the city.After news of the fraud emerged in China, Mr. Gibson said, the number of applications from China dipped. But in recent months, the number of Chinese investors submitting applications for the program has crept back up. “Everybody has forgotten,” he said.