PhotoChina’s stock market is in crisis. By Wednesday, the main Shanghai stock index had plummeted an astounding 32 percent since its peak on June 12 of 5,166 points. The Shenzhen index suffered a similar plunge. Chinese leaders have been rolling out a range of policies to try to halt the slides and restore investor confidence. Some may be working, if haltingly — the Shanghai index on Thursday closed 28 percent down from the peak. But the efforts could forestall what many analysts say is a necessary market correction.PhotoThe decisions of President Xi Jinping and his Communist Party colleagues are being scrutinized by Chinese citizens as well as economists, politicians and scholars abroad. The New York Times asked Kenneth G. Lieberthal, an observer of Chinese politics and a former policy maker in Washington, for his take on the political fallout for Mr. Xi, who until now had benefited from an aura of omnipotence, one that he and party propaganda officials had carefully crafted. Here is what Mr. Lieberthal, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who served as senior director for Asia on the National Security Council under the Clinton administration, wrote in response:I think it is too early to have a good sense of what the political implications of China’s stock market fall will be in terms of popular views of Xi. A lot depends on how much further this will go, what measures the government will still deploy to deal with it and how it is explained to those who are losing money. At this point, the market is still trading well above where it was a year ago, although obviously a lot of small investors have jumped in late in the rally and are potentially going to take losses that for them may be serious. Xi and the party leadership have an enormous array of policy tools to put a floor under the stock market drop, but deciding what tools to use and the details as to timing, scope, scale and duration is not a science. Arguably, most of the policy tools the leadership might bring to bear at this point will work against directions of reform that they want to see move forward. And I am sure there must be arguments within the leadership as to how far to allow the stock market bubble to deflate before pulling out the stops to prevent a major meltdown. This is not a governing system that has well-developed regulatory capabilities and there are a lot of areas in which information available to the leaders is very incomplete or distorted. As you look at Xi’s reform efforts beyond the anti-corruption campaign, I think the sphere in which this has gone the furthest is in the financial sector. There have been a lot of opponents to the speed, scope and targets of financial sector reforms, and the stock market plunge is likely to strengthen the opposition here, with potential spillover effects on reform efforts in other sectors. The official most likely to be the focus of the ire of opponents of reform is Zhou Xiaochuan [governor of the People’s Bank of China], whose current appointment already puts him in office beyond the normal expected retirement age. I generally feel the reforms Zhou has advocated are ones that are necessary and timely, but recent developments have likely made him vulnerable.Follow Edward Wong on Twitter at @comradewong.